Consumers are telling us pretty clearly
that labor market conditions are
deteriorating.
>> Looks like interest rate cuts are
coming.
>> If they're cutting because labor markets
are weak, I think that's negative.
>> The job market, it's in a state of
stasis.
>> Things will break one way or the other.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Heading
into the weekend, it's payrolls Friday.
Investors pushing the S&P 500 back to
fresh all-time highs as the payrolls
report follows a string of softer than
expected jobs data. Even more, Federal
Reserve officials are preparing to
reduce interest rates. That big number 2
hours and 30 minutes away.
>> So, how will the market respond? Right
now, it's expected at 75,000. The
whisper number is 75,000. That's the
number of headline jobs being created.
that would fall in the 50,000 to 100,000
sweet spot that Stuart Kaiser said would
be moderately risk on and would still
open the door to rate cuts. What is the
bigger risk for this market? It a number
below 50 or a number way above 100 given
how much this market is depending on
rate cuts and how much that is hinged to
a little bit of softness in this data.
>> We've talked about it a few times. The
range is super super wide for 8:30 a.m.
Eastern time. The low is zero. The
height is 144. The view from the White
House is interesting. the president of
the United States saying quote the real
numbers will come in a year from now.
>> So undermining once again the integrity
of the data coming from the Bureau of
Labor Statistics and moving the bar.
Why? I read this this morning last
night. I was reading some of the
commentary and thinking is he expecting
a bad number? Is this sort of trying to
get ahead of it and saying that the
numbers are still under construction so
we can't really count on them. Is he
paving the groundwork for some sort of
bigger overhaul of the Bureau of Labor
Statistics or maybe even giving more
money to it? Either way, it shows why
people cared so much about ADP
yesterday, why people cared about the
Beigebook and why people are looking at
CPI and then uh following that further
data points to give a sense of where we
are.
>> I think in fairness to the president,
the comments overnight largely about the
investments some of these big companies
are going to make over the next 12
months and then you're going to see this
bounce back. This is what this market is
positioned for, a reaceleration in
economic growth. Will we see some
evidence of that later this morning?
>> You asked a great question yesterday and
I thought a lot about it last night. The
idea of if the Fed cuts rates, are they
cutting to spur some sort of
reaceleration or into a reaceleration?
This is a key question and we have
Stephanie Roth on coming up later who
thinks this is a typically weak time.
We're going to get weak revisions, but
that next year we will get that
reaceleration regardless of what happens
with interest rate cuts. And it speaks
to exactly what you're talking about,
the investments coming from big tech
officials that all wanted to harp what
they are going to invest so that they
could curry favor with the president.
>> Politics and pe marketing down in
Washington. I understand all of that.
Let's stay on 2026 and market pricing
for 26. I think there's some tension
brewing here. If you believe there's a
real threat to the independence of the
Federal Reserve, you've got to ask
yourself why we're only pricing a
handful of rate cuts through 2026. You
can have one. You need to have the other
two. which is why Mark Cabaler of Bank
of America came on the program earlier
on this week and made the case why would
they stop at 3%. If you're really
worried about the independence of the
Federal Reserve and this Federal
Reserve, this institution being totally
captured by the White House, then you
should also believe interest rates are
going way below 3% for 26 and beyond.
>> This is a market that isn't yet truly
very concerned about the loss of Fed
independence because if it were, you
would see a runaway in inflation
expectations and break even rates. You
are seeing a weaker dollar but not the
kind of dollar crash that you might see.
You are seeing gold as the hedge that
really is gaining some clout. But to me,
this is really a key question. Is the
basis of the interest rate cuts that are
priced into the markets splitting the
difference between people who think that
they can just stay the course and those
who think that they're going to cut well
below 3%.
>> No drama so far this morning. Equities
coming into Friday at record highs.
Futures this morning up another 210 of
1%. Coming up this hour, Chris Verona
Strategus as equities bounce back to
all-time highs. Steve Englander of
Standard Charted on what it would take
for a 50 basis point rate cut and Sarah
House of Wells Fargo on the fragile
standing of the US labor market. We
begin this hour with stocks of record
highs as traders countdown to this
morning's jobs report. Chris Ferrone of
Strategus a bad company writing the
following. There's a fine line of rates
up and down for the right and wrong
reasons in this business. Chris joins us
now for more. Chris, good morning.
>> Great to be here.
>> Let's get to that quote that you've just
laid out. Are we looking at rate cuts
for the right or the wrong reasons?
Well, I think we'll use the leadership
within the equity market to make that
judgment. And what I take some comfort
in, and I think Lisa, you addressed
this, is the Fed cutting to spur uh a
reaceleration or is it cutting as the
market already reacelerates or the
economy does? And I think it's more the
latter right now. When I see consumer
discretionary acting as well as it is uh
when I see banks globally continuing to
really carry the flag of leadership
here, uh I think the economy uh is okay.
So, I think we're cutting into it. There
is a fine line I do think between what
level lower bond yields actually start
to suggest hey wait a second is the
economy actually slowing. I would
suspect that's more 380 375 on 10year
yields not uh breaking this 420 number.
We've been more bullish bonds I think
than the street. I think the market's
validating that but I do want to be a
little bit mindful of of kind of where
that line in the sand is.
>> You've mentioned that cyclical tilt
that's emerged in the equity market more
recently. You've talked lots about it.
Are you seeing any economic data
validate the cyclical till?
>> Well, I think at the end of the day, you
have to remember a couple things. I say
number one, unemployment claims are
still in the 225 camp. We actually went
back and looked um historically where
are claims typically when you get your
first negative payroll print. They're
more like 275 or 280, not 225. So, I
think the timely employment data is
still in pretty good condition. And then
when I shift globally, I see things like
PMIs actually starting to hook up. I see
Chinese money growth starting to hook
up. I see I think maybe the most
important leading indicator out there,
London copper is starting to perk its
head up here. So I think there's some
evidence on balance that would suggest
uh the global economy is actually really
accelerating. Now the great irony of
this is we're only 6 weeks removed from
the IMF cutting global growth. That is
one of the great contrarian indicators
of all time. Um, and it's right about
the time we began to see all these kind
of very potent cyclical indicators start
to turn.
>> That was so wonderfully harsh, said so
nicely. In other words, you just bet
against the IMF no matter what they say.
>> Very few things in this business that
work time and time again. That has
generally been one of them.
>> One thing that you said is you're
bullish on bonds and yet you see a
global reaceleration which sometimes
will come with inflation especially if
see copper prices reacelerating and it
coming from places like China. So what
makes that work? Right. So I I I want to
be clear about a couple things. I say
number one, I'm very keen on this idea
of reflation before inflation. And I
don't know if the ultimate destination
uh is inflation, but I think there's
some reflationary vibe starting to weave
its way through markets. You see it with
life in copper and some of the
materials, even a hint of life in the
energy stocks. These are not leadership
yet. And nor are they happening at the
expense of the consumer. That's what I
think is really key key here. When you
start to lose the consumer because
materials or energy are working, that's
a problem. That's not what's happening
here. Discretionary still acts great on
bonds. This is a US call. I think the US
bond market is the envy of the world
right now. When you look at where German
yields are, where French German spreads
are, even what we've seen uh in Japan.
So, this is a US bond call. I think
frankly it reflects year-over-year the
fiscal condition is better here than it
was a year ago. And I think
year-over-year the fiscal backdrop is
worse in Europe than it was a year ago.
I think the bond market has that. That's
that convergence trade. You're seeing
German French breads kind of migrate
their way back to where nominal US
yields are.
>> We can get into fiscal and the idea of
growth versus the fiscal deficit and how
much tariff revenues will or will not
plug that hole depending on court cases
etc. But on a broader level, how much is
this also a bet that there will be some
modicum of I don't want to say yield
curve control but yield curve control?
Yeah, I think the old Marty's Wag rules
of don't fight the Fed should be
revised. Don't fight the Treasury here
seems to be the the um operating rule uh
these days. And I think listen the
pendulum historically when you look
between where the power is uh in the
financial markets, the Fed and the
Treasury that swings over time to time
and you know basically since the Vulkar
years it's been with the Fed. I I think
that is clearly shifting now back to
Treasury. Uh I think the bond market
certainly reflects that. I was very
comforted on Friday after that court
case uh that 74 um the way bonds
reacted. You could have made a case that
you would see some steepening or some
selling off in the long end. That did
not happen here. I mean 30-year yield
has been completely indifferent here for
8 weeks. 10ear yields as we know this
morning are under 420. The 2-year yield
which I joke is the only Fed speaker we
need. Uh the 2-year yield is trading at
>> down for 4 weeks. So what's that 7580
basis points below where the effect of
Fed funds is. Um I think it's a pretty
benign environment. At the same time,
you have credit conditions pretty calm.
You have discretionary leading and
global banks generally okay.
>> I'm pleased you've brought this up. I
think it's been understated this week
that this bond market in America has
been so much more resilient relative to
what we've seen play out in places like
the UK and in France. When you talk
about the power shifting from the Fed to
the Treasury, what is it that the
Treasury is doing that's supporting
fixed income in America? Well, I think
Lisa, you make a very good point and I'm
I'm I'm reminded of those uh kind of
early 1950 Treasury Accords where we
were able to um keep the long relatively
controlled as we kind of came out of
World War II. Um I do think it's
interesting from a rate perspective, you
look at 30-year fixed uh as well. You're
about to break below 660 here on the
30-year fixed uh which really means
there's nothing in its way to about 550.
Why are home builders turning up? Why
are housing stocks generally turning up?
I I I think there's certainly uh some
cover uh on that front. I think the
harder question here is what is gold's
vote in all of this? Because gold is
still the one piece of information out
there that probably runs counter to some
of the things I'm saying with gold
making new highs this week. Is that more
a reflection of some US fiscal condition
or is it just a response to fiat's bad
everywhere uh around the world?
>> I'll add one to that. the dollar. The
fact that the dollar is at the weakest
right now uh for going back in 2025,
doesn't that also kind of run counter to
that if the US were in such a better
fiscal picture than say Europe?
>> Yeah, let's watch DXY here. This is one
we've been wrestling with. I think the
sentiment is very very one-sided. Uh
we've certainly seen it in our own
survey work and the positioning data.
You have a lot of dollar bears, a lot of
dollar shorts. We've started to see some
resilience in this kind of 97 to 99 DXY
range. If it can put its head above 100,
I'd be open to the idea that you're
going to get some type of a rally. Um,
remember if you believe the ECB is done,
and I believe the ECB is done here. I
think German two-year yields are telling
you the ECB is done. When the ECB was
cutting, euro counterintuitively was
strengthening. If ECB is done and we're
passing the torch of rate cuts to the
Fed, I do wonder if that again somewhat
counterintuitively is the reason you
might get some dollar strength uh in the
months ahead. You think it's about
relative growth and not relative?
>> Absolutely. I I I think the I mean,
right, you got to go back to the old
Soros rules of the world, right? There
are times when um when the FX world was
driven by rate differentials or by
growth differentials or policy
differentials. I think rate
differentials are not what is driving FX
right now. I think it's growth
differentials. And my suspicion is um
the Fed taking the baton of the easing
cycle here uh may be bullish for DXY.
>> New orders picking up. ISM manufacturing
services yesterday big time.
>> Yeah. Well, this is the reason why I
think it's curious if the US really is
doing so much better fiscally, why the
dollar has been so persistently weak,
why people come on the show and they say
by Europe, right? I mean, at what point
is that the reason why you might end up
getting some sort of big reversal?
>> You know, it's funny this I I I said
this at a dinner this week. Um 10 to one
the client questions are more about
Europe than Japan. Yet Japan's the real
bull market. The ability with which
Nikke or Topics or any of the Japanese
indies have shrugged off what you've
seen in the JGB market is remarkable.
Japanese banks continue to trade well.
It has more of the stocks that frankly
fit the themes that the market craves
right now. Japan is one of the real bull
markets in the world right here. Um yet
it gets not even remotely the same
attention that say Europe gets. Uh just
an observation.
>> Just quickly, why do you think that is?
I think we've all been trained to look
at this move in JGBs and suspect the the
worst must come. Um I think it's the
same mistake a lot of people made here
in 22 early 23 when they missed actually
the stimulative effect that higher
yields were actually having. You know
Japanese consumer discretionary is
really outperforming here. I think
that's a suspicion or or or that's a
signal that uh higher rates are not as
uh debilitating to the economy there as
many might expect. The yen has actually
been fairly stable here kind of in this
145 to 150 neighborhood. I think it's
notable. All the Japanese autos have
started to turn up here. Japanese banks
continue to act well. 80 plus% of the
NIK is above the 200 day right now.
That's about as good internally as
you'll see anywhere.
>> Dian 148 this morning. Chris, it's good
to see you.
>> Thank you.
>> Thanks for dropping by. You got a jobs
number? Quick guess.
>> Streets at 75. I'm a bit more
optimistic. Uh low 100s.
>> Okay. Looking for a bounce back, Chris.
Thank you, sir. Chris Veron there at
Strategus with an update on stories
worldwide. With your Bloomberg brief,
let's cross over to Yahara Arnard. Hey
yhara.
>> Hi, John. The Justice Department has
opened a criminal investigation into
whether Federal Reserve Governor Lisa
Cook committed mortgage fraud. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg that
federal prosecutors have issued
subpoenas. Cook has denied the
allegations against her and is fighting
President Trump's attempt to remove her
from the Federal Reserve. Meanwhile, the
new chief at Paramount Sky Dance is
calling all his employees back to the
office 5 days a week. David Ellison
saying he believes collaboration is
vital to the success of the business.
The mandate comes as staff are bracing
for even more job cuts. Paramount
slashed more than 3% of its workforce
ahead of the August merger. And WNBA
star Caitlyn Clark has announced she
will officially miss the rest of the
regular season and playoffs. The Indiana
Fever Guard has not played a game since
suffering a groin injury back in July.
According to ESPN, Clark also suffered a
bone bruise to her left ankle during an
August workout. The 2024 number one pick
played just 13 games this season. That's
your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yhara later
this hour. Up next on the program, chip
tariffs coming shortly.
>> Chips and semiconductors, and we'll be
putting tariffs on uh uh companies that
aren't coming in. will be uh putting a
tariff very shortly. If they're coming
in building, planning to come in, there
will not be a tariff.
>> That conversation up next with Ed Mills
of Raymond James live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Payroll's just around a corner, two
hours away. Later on this morning, a
conversation on the economy on tariffs
and trade with the commerce secretary,
Howard Lnik Howard joins us a little bit
later this morning at 8:00 a.m. Eastern
time. Don't miss that conversation.
Ahead of all of that, equity futures
just about positive on the S&P 500 by
210 of 1% coming into Friday at alltime
highs. And that's a fair event this
morning. Chip tariffs coming shortly.
>> Chips and semiconductors and we'll be
putting tariffs on uh uh companies that
aren't coming in. We'll be uh putting a
tariff very shortly. You probably are
hearing we'll be putting a fairly
substantial tariff on not that high but
fairly substantial tariff. Uh with the
understanding that if they come into the
country, if they're coming in building,
planning to come in, there will not be a
tariff. So, here's the latest this
morning. President Donald Trump saying
tariffs on semiconductors are on the
way. Trump hosting tech executives at
the White House, noting companies
pledging to boost US investments like
Apple would be spared. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall has the latest. Hey, Tyler.
>> Yeah. Hey, John. Good morning. So, we
know the White House has been gearing up
to announce these sector specific chip
tariffs, but at this point, the timeline
really does remain unclear. Back in
April, the administration had launched
that section 232 investigation over
national security concerns into the
entire chip supply chain from the
equipment used to make the chips to
those downstream products that use the
chips like consumer electronics. And we
saw a whole host of those tech execs
that really rely on these chips
yesterday at the White House where as
you mentioned, President Trump appeared
to reaffirm the idea that if these
companies onshore production, they will
be given a reprieve. Now, he highlighted
Apple, which has so far committed $600
billion dollar in US investments. And
while that number is of course very
substantial, our own reporting indicates
that it does fall short of the White
House's goal for a full shift to US
production that they originally
envisioned and had pushed the company
for. Now, these tech execs have been
lobbying this White House for some sort
of carveout, some sort of reprieve from
the beginning. And it really comes at a
time now where Washington is pulling
these other le uh levers to try to exert
control over the global chip supply
chain. Uh take for example earlier this
week the White House moving to revoke
waiverss from companies that ship chip
supplies to China impacting the likes of
Samsung, TSMC and SKH Highix. Now John,
of course ultimately one of the biggest
things that we're waiting for is where
these chip tariffs are going to come in.
You heard President Trump there say they
won't be too high, but they'll still be
very substantial. Most recently had
floated it could be a 100% tariff, but
he's also threatened us as high as a
300% tariff rate.
>> Tyler, we appreciate the update. Tyler
Kendall down in Washington. This news
just crossing a social media post from
the president on China, India, and
Russia. Looks like we've lost India and
Russia to deepest darkest China. May
they have a long and prosperous future
together. This follows what he said with
them conspiring over in China with
Xihinping when you saw them all together
uh on the red carpet. A real question
here about what this means with respect
to the Indian tariffs in particular.
Very interesting to a lot of US
companies that have shifted their
manufacturing production to India from
China and are hoping for a reprieve
rather than actually changing any of
their business plans in the ways of some
of the high levels of Indian tariffs.
We've got Ed Mills standing by. He joins
us from Raymond James. Ed, welcome to
the program. I'm sure you're following
the latest with India. What do you think
the endgame is here?
>> I think there's going to be a deal. I
think that the what we're seeing here,
John, is escalating to deescalate. I
think that the president thought that
India was going to be first um after the
April 2nd reciprocal tariff
announcement. Uh there was really good
negotiations with India. They weren't
able to get that to the finish line and
I think he's been frustrated with them.
Uh right now India is the only country
that has secondary tariffs for Russian
oil. Uh we don't see it on China because
right now President Trump is trying to
have a good relationship with China. The
reason for that is that we need China's
rare earth minerals. Um we were really
close to shutting down a lot of
industrial production here in the United
States a couple months ago because they
weren't sending it to us. So we got a
dant with China. We've been getting
their rare earth minerals. We're able to
produce what we need to do. We don't
have that same relationship with India.
So he's trying to push as hard as he
can, trying to get India to the table,
trying to get them across the finish
line and get a deal. This is classic
negotiations that I've seen time and
time again from him.
>> And it comes after a conversation with
tech leaders including Tim Cook of Apple
after Apple reported that their Indian
sales hit a record $9 billion and
they've talked about moving production
to India. Has the US and this
administration lost leverage during this
process given the increasingly close or
at least the appearance of it
relationship between Modi Xinping and
Vladimir Putin?
>> Lisa, that's a good question. I'm not
sure if it's been a complete loss of
leverage. I do think it is that
frustration. I do think that uh
President Trump uh wants to have the
United States to maintain this sphere of
influence. Um there has been a narrative
out there that look um if you see a lot
of production moving from China to
India, what does India provide for the
United States? Uh early on in this
administration, when I talked to a lot
of Trump administration officials, they
always put India number one. They said,
"Look, India has about an 18 to 20%
tariff on almost every good worldwide
that comes into their economy. It's a
billion plus people. Is there an
opportunity to bring that for US
companies down to zero? The juice would
be worth the squeeze when you have the
highest, you know, tariff rates, one of
the largest populations compared to a
lot of other countries where we already
had free trade agreements. To me, this
really is about the optimism that they
had in January and the pessimism that
they've had as they've gone through this
process and still have not been getting
across that finish line.
>> And maybe the changing goals, Ed, uh,
and this is something that John was
touching on yesterday. There's a real
tension here about whether the
administration's goal is to bring in
revenues to plug the deficit, whether
it's to bring business back to the
United States or whether it's to uh
really penalize some of the rivals, I
should say, with the United States on a
geopolitical scale. Are we getting a
clear sense of which it is?
>> Yeah, Lisa, what I've always told
clients at Raymond James is a a
three-prong process. Number one, bring
in revenues. Uh we have a big trade
deficit. We just passed the largest bill
in the history of the country with the
tax cuts. Number two, protect national
security interest. If we are at war with
China, if we are at war with any um
large country, what do we need to
produce here in the United States?
That's semiconductors. That's why the
president is putting those tariffs on
semiconductors that you led off this
program with. And number three, can you
use the economic force of the United
States to force that policy change? open
up countries that have not been open,
lower tariff and non-tariff barriers uh
to produce more opportunities for US
companies because that tax bill also has
a lot of incentives to build here in the
United States. If you can use those
incentives to build in the United States
and then provide them with export
markets that didn't exist to me when
I've talked to folks in the
administration that's their three-prong
strategy to promote the United States in
our economic growth.
>> I'd appreciate the update from you sir
Ed Mills there of Raymond James. Thank
you very much. With Ed's thoughts in
mind, very much in mind, we'll be
talking to the commerce secretary later
this morning, Howard Lutnik. We need to
talk about this $550 billion investment
fund, this agreement with Japan. Exactly
how this is going to work, how it's
going to be enforced.
>> Is this essentially just money that's
being given over? Is it something where
the US keeps the control, but the
Japanese give the money? Is this to try
to uh you know sort of plug any kind of
trade deficit with giving the money that
otherwise might get withdrawn if you do
reduce trade. Look, there's so many
questions to understand what the scope
of this investment is and how different
it is from what was already announced is
going to be key.
>> Lots more on trade still to come. If you
are just joining us, welcome to the
program. We arrive into Friday at
alltime highs on the S&P 500. Futures up
again by 0.2%. The jobs report very much
in focus. In just a moment, we'll catch
up with Steve Englander of Standard
Charted on how today's payroll sprint
could lead to a 50 basis point rate cut.
Plus, we'll touch base with Danny with
your morning movers as Lulu slashes its
outlook. That stock is down almost 18%.
[Music]
Two-day winning streak on the S&P 500
coming into Friday at record highs on
the S&P. Adding some weight to the
rally. Futures up by 0.2% on the NASDAQ
100 up by 0.5. On the Russell, small
caps looking for the fifth consecutive
week of gains up every single week since
that disappointing payrolls report for
the month of July in early August. In
the bond market just before that
payrolls report your 2-year was in the
390s. This morning it's in the 350s down
just a little bit going into payrolls.
Down again on 10-year bond yields. Rammo
41548 on 10 this morning.
>> You know to me this has really been the
vote that there will be lower yields
ahead that we won't get runaway
inflation or potentially that we'll get
some sort of Fed not control but
influence over the long end of the yield
curve. Either way, this hasn't been a
bond market screaming about runaway
inflation and runaway growth, albeit at
a strong pace.
>> On the week so far, bond yields down
across most maturities, twos, tens, and
30s. That's the cross asset setup. Let's
get you some single names, some morning
movers. With more, here's Danny Ber.
Hey, Danny.
>> Hey, John. A major coup for Broadcom.
They will be working with Open AI to
develop specific AI chips for them.
Those shares up 9 and a3% really shows
that they are in this race. They are a
serious challenger to Nvidia. The CEO
saying they already have $10 billion
worth of orders and shipments will start
next year. Oracle some of our exclusive
reporting here kind of a similar thing
trying to cement their status as a major
player in the AI infrastructure
buildout. $ 38 billion is the amount of
debt that they will be raising in order
to build out some AI infrastructure.
Again, we're in this world that spending
loading up debt is a good thing this
time around because it means they can
play in AI. Those shares up just under
2%. The real mover to the downside this
morning though it is Lululemon yet again
cutting their forecast. Something Lulu
has done consecutively this time. Shares
are down 18%. It cited higher cost. It's
starting to raise prices competition
among Aloe Vori and also a $250 million
hit when it comes to tariffs. So all
that sponsoring of US Open players, you
literally can't go anywhere and see
Lululemon without them talking about
tennis seemingly not helping them right
now. John
>> Lisa saw it coming. Diori very early on.
Danny, thank you.
>> I'm definitely a fashion trend uh
setter. That's definitely my my
reputation.
>> Danny, thank you very much. More from
Danny in the next hour. One more stock
for you. Tesla in the pre-market. Check
this out. Big news. Tesla proposing a
new compensation agreement for the CEO,
Elon Musk.
>> Yeah, let's talk about the worth of this
potential pay package over the next
decade. A trillion dollars. So Elon Musk
already the world's wealthiest
individual with some $374 billion of net
worth. He could become the world's first
trillionaire. That's essentially what
this means at a time where the board is
saying we need to incentivize him to
stay and perform and if we can that is
going to be key to the future. So
evidently what does it take to get it
done? We all have a number. His is a
trillion dollars.
>> $50 billion pay package back in 2018.
Remember that one that incentive package
struck down by Delaware court. Clearly
they need to keep him engaged in the
company.
>> Yeah. And they're trying to get him to
set they're setting certain targets
saying if he uh supersedes those he gets
the trillion dollar pay package. It's
just as notable how everyone has a
number. We've talked about this many
times, probably off air. Uh, but
>> mine mine's not a trillion.
>> Yours is a trillion dollars. Maybe his
was, you know, 20 years ago, but now for
Elon Musk to uh to get it done, his
number evidently is a trillion.
>> There is some clear and obvious keyman
risk associated with that company. That
stock is up by close to 2%. We'll have
more on Tesla later this morning. On our
radar this morning, some of our top
stories for you. President Donald Trump
saying he'll impose fairly substantial
tariffs on chips very shortly during a
White House dinner attended by top tech
executives. Trump adding the companies
pledging to boost their US investments
will be exempt. Broadcom teaming up with
OpenAI to design and produce an AI chip
to take a market dominated by Nvidia
headon. Broadcom CEO saying the company
has secured more than $10 billion in
orders from OpenAI with plans to ship
starting next year. And finally, the
Department of Justice opening a criminal
investigation into Fed Governor Lisa
Kirk over allegations of mortgage fraud.
Kirk responding that the allegations
disguise the president's true intentions
of gaining control over the Fed.
>> This is a frustrating story for me. I'll
tell you that all around it feels kind
of icky. On one hand, you could say, is
this a politically motivated? Well, why
did they originate with the FHFA? Why
were they going after line by line a
particular type of uh what they call
mortgage fraud that is fairly common? On
the flip side, she is a Fed governor and
if she did some of this, then
potentially that is problematic. Either
way, we're talking about all sorts of
layers of ickiness. On one hand,
political interference. On another hand,
you know, any kind of malfeasance,
whether it's common or not, uh, with
respect to mortgage applications at a
time when a lot of people are saying,
can't we just make the noise go away
around the Fed so we can get back to
some sort of traditional Yeah. So,
traditional Fed policy? And the answer
clearly is no.
>> My question this morning, who's more
likely to be at the Fed meeting,
September 17th Fed decision, Steven Min
or Governor Cook?
>> I have no idea. I mean, right now it
seems like Steven Myron got a pass
regardless of some of the concerns about
him staying on the Council of Economic
Advisors or at least pausing that while
he goes to the Fed and then returning to
it even though he doesn't like the
revolving door.
>> Our next guest guess that question,
start thinking about it, Steve. All
right, less than two hours away from the
payrolls report. The first jobs report
since President Donald Trump fired the
previous BLS director. Trump saying the
first real jobs numbers won't come until
next year. With the latest, here's
Bloomberg's Mike McKe. Good morning,
Mike.
>> Good morning, John. Well, interesting
thing. We heard from the president last
night. He didn't seem very excited about
the numbers, saying that next year is
when we're going to see some good
employment numbers. If that's the case,
then prepare Wall Street for what might
be uh considered bad news under any
other circumstance, but would be
considered good news this time around
because it would back up the idea of a
Fed rate cut. If we got 75,000, which is
oddly enough the whisper number as well,
suggesting maybe people don't really
have a good idea of what the number is
going to be today and we don't get a big
revision, then does everybody just nod
and go about their business and wait for
CPI next week? That's going to be an
interesting question to see what the
market reaction is today because uh we
put so much on this number that if it
doesn't surprise somehow, people might
be a little bit surprised. Mike McKe
with the latest down in Washington DC.
Mike, stay close. We'll catch up with
you later this morning going into this
print. Sticking with the labor market,
Steve Englander of Standard Shouted has
this to say. In our view, published
non-farm payrolls below 40K and an
unemployment rate of 4.4% will make a
50, yes, 50 basis point rate cut more
likely. Steve joins us now for more.
Steve, good morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning.
>> What's your base case at the moment? Our
our base case is still 25 because we're
not sure where the payrolls are and we
think the published number even though
we disagree with the accuracy will be
75,000.
>> Oh, you've got to get into that. You
disagree with the accuracy. What does
that mean?
>> Um, we think it actually overstates
growth by about 70,000. The issue is
that there are two measures of jobs
created by newly formed firms, less
closing firms. One is accurate and
through 2024 it tells us that's running
like 10 15,000. And then you have the
so-called birth death adjustment that's
running like 90 95,000 which is based on
kind of a very rough and ready model. So
we would go with the 10 to 15,000 and
that's going to be the major source of
the downward benchmark revisions for 20
um through March of 2025 that we're
going to see next week. This is the
reason why the Fed has been talking
about the unemployment rate as being
possibly more important than the actual
number because a lot of the responses to
the Bureau of Labor Statistics surveys
have come in late and that's the reason
why revisions have been so significant.
Do you buy that?
>> Not entirely. I mean some of it's
lateness but some of it is that you know
the model itself has no behav behavioral
characteristics. the they do a sample of
160,000 firm um firms and 600,000
establishments and basically they figure
out okay in these firms they were work
you know they were in operation last
month this month how much has jobs
changed then they when they get to the
new firms they take this very kind of
odd you know model and you know it's if
you seasonally adjust those numbers
birth death has been stable at 95,000 in
a way that's like completely implausible
>> so you believe that the labor market is
a lot weaker than it currently is
showing and that a 50 basis point rate
cut should be on the table.
>> Yeah. And go ahead.
>> I I worry about casual sort of
conversations where where you take a top
down analysis that says oh yeah
potential you know employment growth is
50 to 75 or 100,000. Uh but you don't
realize that that analysis is correct
but the the number that's published is
way off. But no one actually thinks that
this Fed or very few people the market
is not betting this Fed will drop rates
by 50 basis points even with that
threshold simply because you have like
the likes of Beth Hammock of the
Cleveland Fed coming out and saying she
doesn't want to cut at all. So at what
point are you saying yields on the long
end should be a lot lower if you think
that the economy is a lot weaker than it
currently is being stated and this is
not a Fed prepared to cut rates as
quickly as you think is warranted.
>> Well, I'll tell you I don't think they
have to cut rates a lot. I I think that
they have some catchup to do. I I think
had they known the numbers in June as
they were going to play out, they
probably would have done 25 in June or
or July because ultimately if the labor
market is weak, the you know that kind
of takes care of inflation for you. I
think that's Walder's view. And I say
this that even though the unemployment
rate is stable, um you look to
employment to population ratio, it's
going steadily down because we know
participation is is cyclical and the
participation rate's been dropping. So
saying okay it's been flat at 41442 is
actually pretty misleading because
employment to population is going the
other way.
>> Let's talk about catch up or we should
say catch down. Catch down to what?
Let's talk about interest rates and this
glide path towards whatever neutral is.
How are you thinking about that glide
path?
>> We don't think that they have to do much
more than the you know we we have 25 and
nothing but they could do 50 if the
numbers are soft. We don't think they
have to do much more because that would
take them pretty close to trend. And you
know, and again, when when you look at
the economy, nothing's falling off a
fast.
>> That sounds like a midcycle adjustment,
not an end of cycle easing cycle. Is
that fair enough?
>> Yeah. No. And and you know, switching to
the dollar for a second, we think that
there's downside dollar risk in the
short term as you know, these data risks
are kind of incorporated. Uh but once we
get past that to the end of 2025 and
into 26, we we we think the market will
back away from Fed cuts.
>> Well, to that point, there's a time
limit to this conversation. It's May
2026. We'll have a new Fed chair and
arguably a completely different way of
looking at the world, won't we?
>> Um, yes and no. I mean, the bond
market's way of looking at the world is
not likely to change. Ultimately, there
there's some market discipline that gets
imposed. And yes, you know, even Moran
yesterday, you know, kind of probably
used the word independence a 100 times
in his discussion.
>> What does market discipline look like?
>> I I think, you know, we saw this in in
April after the uh uh liberation day
tariffs were announced. the market
really didn't like what it saw and bond
yields, you know, backed up severely.
Risk premium backed up severely.
>> Did did we see discipline over in Europe
with respect to yields particularly in
France and the UK at a time where the
economy is struggling and you're seeing
that in the revisions in the UK too
because the data there isn't so great
either evidently. Uh or is this just the
tip of the iceberg? I
>> I'll tell you the UK is trading like an
emerging market economy. The
characteristic is current currency and
interest rates have a uh currency goes
down, interest rates go up. It means the
market's adding risk premium to um asset
prices there. I think Europe is a bit
different because the ECB is it's a very
much bigger area. I think if France
itself was trading off French
characteristics, we'd probably see
something similar to the UK.
>> Steve, just finally, the UK is trading
like one. Is it being governed like one?
Um I they they have a tough situation. I
mean there's no spark of growth and you
know inflation is is kind of stubbornly
high. They they have all these issues. I
mean the the thing that makes people
somewhat optimistic about the US is that
you say maybe AI maybe stable coin.
There's a lot of innovation. You you see
that neither on the continent nor in the
UK and you sort of say how's it going to
get out of this?
>> And I've got no idea. And it sounds like
you don't either.
>> No. Steve Englander of Standard Charter.
The UK in a tricky place. Let's get back
to this Fed debate. Bremo. The Federal
Reserve into next year. Should there be
a timeline on the kind of frameworks we
have for thinking about this Federal
Reserve and does it end in May next year
when we have a new Fed share? He's
talking about market discipline. Steve
talking about the market pushing back
against anything more aggressive than
what's already priced. And Steven Myin
yesterday talked about moderate interest
rates as a goal of the Fed, which led uh
some people to say, is this a subtle way
of pointing at some sort of not yield
curve control, but some sort of attempt
to uh mllify long-end yields as part of
the mandate? Look, how much of that's
being priced into markets already?
Markets are a forward-looking
instrument, and a lot of people say that
the number of rate cuts being baked into
the market is as big as it is because of
that change in composition. The bond
market this morning super well behaved.
2-year yields going nowhere. 358 tens at
about 416. With an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief,
let's cross over to Yahara for more. Hey
Yahara.
>> Hi John. Tesla shares are moving higher
in the pre-market up 2% after their
board has approved a new compensation
package for CEO Elon Musk possibly
valued at $1 trillion. The EV maker has
proposed a special share pool as it
seeks to replenish their employee
incentive pool by 60 million shares.
Tesla board has also proposed
authorization of investment in XAI.
Meanwhile, President Trump said he would
like to see two candidates drop out of
New York City's mayoral race to improve
the chances that Democratic socialist
Zoran Mdani loses. The comments come
amid reports that Trump advisers have
been in talks with incumbent Mayor Eric
Adams over a potential job if he quits
the race. Adams has denied the reports.
And in sports, an electric start to the
NFL season as the defending champion
Philadelphia Eagles beat their rivals,
the Dallas Cowboys, after an hour-long
delay due to lightning and Eagles star
Jaylen Carter's ejection for spitting on
Dallas QB Dak Prescott. The Eagles took
a one-point lead into the half. Then
they held Dallas scoreless in the second
half to win 24-20. That's your Bloomberg
Reef. John, thank you. Got to see that.
How do you spit through a helmet? How do
you make that happen? It's a skill,
right?
>> It's sort of like uh the JFK
documentary. I think that we should do
that. The the sort of lugie was in the
Sidefield episode.
>> Is that what that was?
>> Yeah. Sort of to to track the the way
that you do it.
>> I've got no idea what you're talking
about. Okay, great. I'm with you. I'm
sure lots of other people do.
>> I'm actually sure that nobody knows what
I'm talking about. All right. So, let's
talk about jobs. Let's
>> Friday. Let's do that. Next on a
program, signals from the labor market.
>> Consumers are telling us pretty clearly
that labor market conditions are
deteriorating. The news is going to get
worse before it gets better.
>> Sarah House of Wells Fargo joins us next
from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Just for the record, I was the only one
who didn't understand the reference, but
I knew that at the time anyway. Forgive
me.
>> You did. We'll keep watch the whole
thing. Watch the episode. It was great.
>> I get it. And he did it through the
helmet. I checked the video.
>> Thank you. It was actually like pretty
good analogy, right?
>> If you don't know what we're talking
about, it doesn't matter. Payrolls are
just around the corner. Equity futures
on the S&P 500 positive here by 0.2% on
the NASDAQ 100 by 0.5. Under Sylvanas
this morning, signals from the labor
market. Consumers are telling us pretty
clearly that labor market conditions are
deteriorating. My sense is that there's
an ongoing sort of labor market slowdown
that's already in train. It's uh cooling
but not collapsing. Think the news is
going to get worse before it gets
better.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Investors counting down to August
payrolls out in less than two hours
time. The median estimate in our survey
coming in at 75K. Sarah House of Wells
Fargo writing the following. We look for
payroll growth to strengthen in August
with a gain of 90K, but we suspect the
rebound will prove temporary. Sarah
joins us now for more. Sarah, welcome to
the show as always on a payroll Friday.
Good morning to you. Let's just start
with the 90K and then we can talk about
why it's temporary. What underpins the
bounce back to 90,000.
>> Right. So good morning Jonathan. So we
have seen at least some signs of
tentative stabilization in demand. So if
you're looking at things like posting,
small business hiring plans, but when we
look further into the year, so we're
seeing ongoing supply constraints that
we think will get even worse. And I
think a backdrop of even weaker consumer
spending and so that's going to dampen
demand as as we move into the final
months of the year. So remaining months,
we're probably looking for an average
gain of only somewhere around 40,000.
>> Do you think the 90,000 if we do get it,
Sarah? big if of course because this is
very unpredictable. Do you think it
would change the conversation at all
going into this Fed meeting?
>> I think it still keeps us on track for a
25 basis point cut. So I think you will
also have to take it in concert with
whatever happens with with the
unemployment rate which we do think will
will edge up. But I think overall that's
still marking a deceleration from what
we've seen over the past year or so. And
I think there would also be some
questions over is that really 90,000
just given the pattern of both the
monthly revisions but also even some of
the benchmark revisions.
>> Sarah, will the uh rebound prove
temporary if the Fed cuts rates this
year?
>> So I think that we'll we'll see with we
are expecting the Fed to to cut rates
and so I don't think that that's
automatically going to to spur an
immediate rebound in hiring. We think
that that's going to come more in in
2026 as you do have easier monetary
policy beginning to feed through. You
also have the benefits of more
stimulative fiscal policy. So, we still
think that we're in for a rough patch
here over over the next few months, but
I think easier monetary policy will help
spur a rebound as we as we are in 2026.
So, our number of guests have come on
surveillance talk about the likelihood
of a reaceleration next year because of
the one big beautiful bill going into
effect because of certain investment
plans that have been in the pike waiting
for a time uh for corporate executives
to pull the trigger. Why do you reject
that as a source of rebound and still
see a deceleration?
>> Well, so to to be clear, we're looking
for a deceleration hiring through the
remainder of 2025, but I do think that
you'll see activity and hiring pick up
in in 2026. So the reason for that re
acceleration in activity is some of the
the fiscal support related to the one
big beautiful bill act which you
mentioned some of that easier monetary
policy but also just I think businesses
digesting some of these changes to trade
policy. They can only delay a lot of
capital spending plans so long and so I
do think that that will help drive a
rebound in hiring once we get into to
2026 but the remaining months of the
year I think are going to be pretty
rough. Sarah, how much weight should we
put on the new orders component of the
ISMs this week for both manufacturing
and services and that snapback we've
seen that bounce? What do you think that
speaks to?
>> Yeah, so I think it is the fact that we
have reduced some of the policy
uncertainty since the the spring. So, I
think that was causing a lot of
businesses to to pause activity. But we
those businesses I think can only wait
so long as they're getting a little bit
more clarity on on the course of of
where policy is going as I think overall
economic conditions haven't softened
quite as much as a lot of u of business
decision makers have feared. I think
they're they're going to going forward
and moving with that. So, I think it's
an encouraging sign. the ISM indicators
as timely and as they've been, you know,
they're they're not always, you know, I
I think you have to take them in concert
with what we're seeing elsewhere, but
it's definitely a positive sign in terms
of momentum, I think, stabilizing and
and potentially even getting set for a
reaceleration as as we move uh later on.
>> Sarah, 10 years ago, if we'd seen this
breakdown to an average of payrolls for
3 months around 30 to 50k, I think we'd
be very very worried about recession. Is
there something different about this
economy which means 30 to 50,000 isn't
what it used to be?
>> Yeah, absolutely. So, it really comes
down to the labor supply picture. So, we
have an increasingly aging population.
And so, that alone po points to you need
a essentially a lower break even rate
for payroll growth. But then you layer
on top of it of it this market shift in
in terms of immigration patterns which I
think is really driving that break even
lower to where you probably don't need
something you probably need a number
below 50,000 maybe even lower than that
I think to really spark alarm in in this
environment and so I do think that the
the goalpost has kind of moved in terms
of what constitutes a a a jobs number
that you do need to to worry about right
now.
>> Sarah is this low hire low fire dynamic
structural or cyclical? Is this
something that's going to change when
the economy does reacelerate or is this
something that is just sort of inherent
to an aging population and the dynamics
that you were just talking about?
>> No, I think I think is more cyclical in
terms of there's still a lot of
uncertainty. So, yes, it's come down
since where we were back in in the
spring, but I think business are
businesses are still being really
cautious right now. They don't know
exactly where end demand is going to be
just given some of the tariff
constraints. Even if you're not directly
uh exposed to to tariffs. If you are,
you're looking for ways to to c to
reduce costs. And so you're really
reluctant to hire even if you don't
necessarily want to let go of of your
existing workforce. So I think that you
will see as we get some improvement in
terms of activity, other opportunities
open up. You'll see some of that job
switching resume. That's going to
generate more hiring as as well. So, I'd
lean more towards the cyclical side.
>> Sarah, thank you. That is the great
debate at the moment in the labor
market. That's for sure. Sarah House of
Wells Fargo. Structural, cyclical,
demand or supply.
>> And this is the reason why people are
all over the map when it comes to this.
It's also the reason why everyone has a
conspiracy theory about artificial
intelligence replacing all our jobs and
the robots coming uh for your lunch. I
wonder how much that's a smokeokc screen
for people who just don't want to hire
any new employees and lock themselves
into that kind of pay structure. So,
they're going to play around with chatbt
and hope for the best.
>> So, Chad Pal thinks it's both. I'll
gloss over that, forgive me. Chad Pow
thinks it's both. I think what you're
saying is important.
>> The chairman of the Federal Reserve says
ultimately it's demand and supply, but
we should put more weight on demand
because this can get out of control
quickly, which is why I think you've
seen that pivot in the last month. And
that's essentially the substance of his
speech in Jackson Hole.
>> You said the Fed has been uh dovish for
a long time, biased to the dovish. They
are conditioned by the financial crisis
of 2008 and 2009 where there's an entire
generation that lost and really has been
left behind. They want to prevent that
from happening again. that kind of
scarring in the labor market. Question
is, is this time different or is that
really a model that you can use for the
moment that we're in?
>> Recklessly doubish at times.
>> That's that was that was your phrase.
Yes, there you go.
>> Okay. Up next on the program, Prizer of
JP Morgan. We'll catch up with George
Pollock of Signum. Michael Nathansson of
Moffett Nathansson will be joining us.
And Steve Rashuto of Mazuo as we count
you down to the payrolls report at 8:30
Eastern time. Equities positive by 210
of 1% on the S&P 500. We've got record
highs going into the weekend.
[Music]
>> If you get a bad labor market report,
that's that's negative for US equity
markets.
>> The market's already pricing in the
cuts.
>> If the Fed doesn't cut, that's probably
sets up a little bit of a pullback here.
>> The market's really looking at what the
Fed could do as opposed to what the Fed
should do. Investors are searching for
alternative forms of diversification.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the second hour of
Bloomberg Savannah starts right now. And
your scores look like this. Equity
futures positive by 0.2% on the S&P up
by 0.5 on the NASDAQ 100 coming into
Friday at record highs. In the bond
market coming into Friday with some
stability, twos, 10ens, and 30-year bond
yields down on the week, down on the
session. Twos at 358 at or close to the
lows of 2025. Going into this one, the
payrolls report just around the corner,
90 minutes away. The estimate in our
survey 75K.
>> So, what's a good number and what's a
bad number? People have re uh visited
some of their expectations in a low
higher low fire type of dynamic where
companies aren't making big moves.
75,000 is the expectation. And as Mike
said, 75,000 is a whisper, which means
that no one has a clue or confidence or
conviction to really move away from
that. Key question to me is watch the
revisions. Everyone's talking about the
accuracy of the data for whatever
reason. You can bring politics into it
or not, but there's a real question of
how much these are going to get revised
downward and what that means for any
kind of weakness.
>> 3 month average at the moment is 35,000.
35,000 is not good. Even if you believe
there's a lot of supply issues going on
here, a step down like that is going to
concern monetary policy officials. It's
concerning the Federal Reserve. What
would change the call on September 17th
to reduce interest rates today? I don't
think it's 100,000. Is it 150? Does it
push 200? What would change that call?
>> Or is it the unemployment rate falling,
not necessarily rising? The expectation
is for it to rise to 4.3% from 4.2%.
That might be the most important metric.
We heard that from Fed Chair Powell over
in Jackson Hole. He's watching that
because the headline numbers are so
confusing at this point. And maybe we
just have to uh count on maybe getting
something next year that's not under
construction. and then we can count on
the headline number. But until then,
they're looking at the unemployment
rate.
>> It would take something massive to
change that call on September 17th. What
it could shape is the outlook and how
they communicate that rate cut because I
think the debate of the Federal Reserve
now is pretty much fixed. We'll cut
rates 25 basis points. The real debate
is going to be about the outlook, the
kind of guidance that they're willing to
provide at this moment about what
they're going to do next, what the glide
path is down to neutral, if this is a
midcycle adjustment or the start of
something bigger. Do you think that if
they communicate anything, the market's
going to take it? Or are they watching
the Steven Meyer hearings on Capitol
Hill? I'm serious because at a certain
point, are people listening to Fed Sher
J. Powell or are they saying, "All
right, you can pencil in two rate cuts
for the remainder of this year and then
look to a much less conventional policy
next year when we get a new Fed share."
This is the reason why people were
interested in Steven Myron yesterday.
This is the reason why people didn't
respond to Beth Hammock, the Cleveland
Fed president, who came out and said she
doesn't think that the Fed should cut
rates at all. Markets did move. Yield's
still down. So, it gives you a sense of
where the gravitational force is on the
Fed.
>> I'm right there with you. This is the
final meeting for Chairman Pal where he
can provide real guidance without
disruption from Washington. After this,
you'll find out who the Fed chair is
going to be before year round end. So,
the next round of forecast, Chairman
Pal's going to come out and say, "This
is what we're thinking about 2026. I'm
not interested in what Chairman Pal
thinks about in 2026 at the end of the
year. I'm interested in what the other
guy thinks about 2026."
>> Yeah. and what kind of inflationary
pressure there really is coming down the
pike. It seems like a number of Fed
officials have coalesed on the idea that
any kind of tariff related inflationary
pressure will be shortlived. Did you
like how I did that? That was really I'm
trying to be academic enough. I
absolutely feel natural. Moving forward,
there's a sense that it will fade. And
yet what you're hearing from a lot of
companies is they can pass price
increases along to their consumers. So
that to me is really a question uh at a
time when there still is a dual mandate,
albeit one where the employment picture
seems to be taking front and center.
>> Inflation data next week, next Thursday,
payrolls later this morning, 8:30
Eastern time. Coming up this hour,
Priissra of JP Morgan with bond yields
holding steady ahead of payrolls. George
Pollock of Signnum as President Trump's
Fed Pig plans to keep his job at the
White House and Steve Rashut of Missouo
as Trump pours some cold water on
today's data. We begin this hour with
stocks of record highs ahead of this
morning's jobs report. Priisra of JP
Morgan writing a consensus number around
75K would be consistent with a low
higher low fire labor market but a
weaker number would suggest that the
labor market momentum is deteriorating
sharply. Pria joins us now for more.
Pria, good morning.
>> Morning.
>> Good to see you. You know the big debate
at the moment. Yes, the labor market
data so far this week is confirming a
slowdown, but there's been pockets of
data, new orders that suggest maybe a
bounce, a pickup. And on the equity side
of things, we're talking about a
reaceleration in this economy. How are
you thinking about things on the bond
side?
>> So, I think people are looking at price
action and trying to put a narrative to
it. I mean, I think yes, is there
pockets of strength in the data?
Absolutely. There's pockets of weakness.
You can look at jewels. This is what
happens in a soft landing. You know,
what I think equity people call soft
landing and bond people call subtrend
growth. But essentially, if you're
growing 1 to 2%, you're going to get
mixed data. And so I really struggle
with that reaceleration. The bond
market's not pricing it in, but I really
don't see it in the economic data. Now,
if you get the Fed rate cuts, we get
something like last year. Now, you know,
there's a lot of talk that last year the
Fed cut 100 basis points, rates rose
100. We had a lot of other things going
on in the bond market as well. We were
pricing in growth stimulus. We were
pricing in the election uncertainty
behind us and rates had fallen to 360. I
think with the bond market saying, you
know, look at uh spreads, look at how
much the uh rates are essentially priced
to go down. We're pricing in this soft
landing midcycle adjustment. We're
pricing away the idea of sell America.
We're not really pricing in Fed
independence being an issue. We're
pricing in this idea things are slowing.
The Fed cuts exactly the right amount of
uh you know that that they need to cut.
They get rates down to neutral and we
can stay in the soft landing. And does
the data does the economy cooperate? I
think that's the big question.
>> It doesn't sound like you buy it at all.
Do you buy that story?
>> I struggle a little bit with it because
when we look at the under the hood, so I
will say our base case, I should say 65%
chance we stay in that soft landing.
That's how we're positioned. Are we
hedging for that downside risk?
Absolutely. I think owning duration, the
10 year is not at 360 where we were last
year as the Fed started to cut rates.
The 10 years at 420, 430, that's where
we were adding duration. Are we max long
duration? No, we're not because we're
hoping the data comes in 50 75,000 so we
stay in the soft landing. What happens
if it comes in weaker? The Fed might cut
2550 but I'm looking at that end point
after all the rate cuts it's priced at
3%. That's not accommodative that's
neutral. So I think own some duration
have curve steepeners. These are ways
you can hedge if you own credit if you
own risk assets. Your nightmare scenario
is either inflation picks up and the Fed
can't cut. I think that's a little lower
risk today. Or is that just there's
nonlinearities with recessions. Monetary
policy works with a lag. The Fed can
cut, but they can only do that much if
the economy is actually slowing.
>> I thought the way to hedge was to go to
Costco and buy a gold bar. I mean,
essentially what you're saying is back
to the normal drawing board, which is
somewhat controversial right now, which
is that duration is actually a hiding
spot in times of a downturn. What gives
you confidence that playbook still works
given all the concerns not only about
Fed independence but about longer term
some sort of unmaring of the US position
as the haven uh currency and asset
class. So there's a lot in there. So so
let me address a couple of things in
terms of um you know exceptionalism.
Look at us growth. We're still the best.
You can say, you know, it's the it's the
dirt, cleanest, dirty shirt, whatever.
Our growth, we've got the AI story view.
All the max 7 are US companies. So, I
think on a growth front, that's why that
sell America struggle with I think yes,
was the dollar overvalued? People should
hedge some of their dollar risk.
Absolutely. So, I think US growth is
still good. Uh now, let's see. Does
Europe outperform because they put in a
lot of fiscal stimulus? We'll see.
That's like a next 5year uh uh you know
debate on independence. I mean yes. Is
it concerning? Has this ever been done
in the last 50 years? No. That the
president's tried to fire a sitting Fed
governor. But it's a committee. I don't
believe just because a president
appoints a particular Fed governor that
they'll do exactly what he wants.
>> Okay. But hold on a second because what
we heard from Steven Myron, who is
likely to get confirmed to this board,
is that uh one of the Fed's goals should
be moderate interest rates and this idea
of targeting something that seems a
little bit lower than say uh might be
required by markets. Doesn't that make
you start thinking about the Treasury
and the Fed put it together, issuance
versus the Fed and where they try to
push on the yield curve in different
places? Doesn't that leave you with some
questions around what that implies for
markets?
>> Well, I think the Treasury should cut
some of that long-end supply. I mean,
this is a global situation. There's a
supply demand mismatch on the long end.
Others, so the UK is doing it, Japan's
doing it. I think they need to cut long
supply and that is the right thing.
There is not that much demand. Dutch
pension fund reform, LDI demand is not
that high. Now, on your Fed point, does
Myron want lower rates? Maybe. The Fed,
the congressional mandate for the Fed is
the dual mandate, inflation and full
employment. They're going to abide by
that. They just did the framework
review. They pushed back against this
idea of letting the economy run hot. I
thought that was it hasn't gotten as
much airplay. That is the Fed saying
we've changed our framework for the next
5 years. We're going to operate on that
framework. And I think I actually was
kind of heartened by the debate
yesterday. It wasn't so much on, you
know, his views on the economy. did was
do you care about independence and
everything Marin said I care about
independence and Congress cares about
independence both sides of the aisle I
and the bond market cares about and the
president cares about the bond market so
maybe I'm giving the bond market too
much credit but I think a yippy bond
market if the long end starts to say no
no this is independent and I think the
Fed chair pick is going to be very very
important I think you're going to get a
credible Fed chair pick to keep the bond
vigilantes at bay send them overseas
because they have a bigger problem. I
think the US and we've got tariff
revenues coming in which I think is
going to keep improving the deficit. I'm
not saying we don't have a deficit
problem, but we can address that another
day.
>> It's kept the US debt market resilient
in the last week. Absolutely. And I
don't think you can describe the US debt
market in the same way as you describe
UK and France. Just two completely
different situations. I do think we have
to call balls and strikes. And you know
me, I will when I see them when things
aren't going right. I don't think it
looks good going from the White House to
the Fed and keeping your job at the
White House at the same time. And I
don't think Steven Myron of last year
thinks it looks good either. So I'm just
going to leave that there. I will say to
be consistent about the matter, I didn't
like Brainard flipping between the
Federal Reserve and the White House. I
didn't like it when sitting Fed
governors were making political
donations either. So let's be consistent
about the fact. But when it comes to the
Federal Reserve, I'm so pleased you've
brought this up. There's some language
that hasn't sat well with me over the
last few weeks when people talk about
the president having a majority on the
Fed. I'm sorry. The idea that Governor
Bowman and Governor Waller are going to
be puppets of the president every time
the Federal Reserve gets together. I
would push back strongly against that
notion.
>> It's not the Supreme Court. It's not
necessarily a congressional committee.
This is a Federal Reserve that is trying
to control its dual mandate. My question
though is how much they are going to
bias their economic projections to
something that is more favorable to the
president. And that I think is something
that we've seen consistently throughout
the years. This isn't new under the
Trump administration. That is why these
are uh you know presidentialapp
appointed figures that are confirmed by
Congress. There is a political bet to
this because your view of the economy is
your view frankly uh of of the fate of a
nation.
>> Sure. But is that intellectually
independent of whatever the Federal
Reserve thinks about the economy and
whatever the president thinks about what
should happen with rates? If Governor
Waller comes out and says, "Look, I
think the labor market's cracking. We
should drop interest rates." I think
that's someone who's making an
independent call on the economy. Now,
the president might like the outcome and
he might choose people to go into the
Federal Reserve that think the same way.
Ultimately, the president has that
privilege. It's up to the Senate to
confirm.
>> To me, the key question for any
candidate, and I believe your colleague
Bob Michael uh said that this was the
key question, and I think he is right.
What do you do as a Fed chair or as a
Fed member, if when you cut rates, the
long end of the yield curve goes up? If
when you cut rates there is a signal by
the market that inflation expectations
are becoming unmed do you engage in
yield curve control? Do you stop cutting
rates? What is your reaction function to
that kind of push back in?
>> I've asked the same thing and
potentially the market could be the
ultimate regulator of all of this and
we'll see how it plays out. But for now,
no real drama. No deankering of
inflation expectations. A lot of people
I know at think tanks running around
with their hair on fire. I understand
why. But you're not seeing the same
thing in financial markets. You're
seeing resilience.
>> Yeah. And this is partly uh one of the
reasons why people are saying this is a
story maybe for next year. Maybe people
are pricing in more rate cuts, but it's
not coming with necessarily the
inflation that people are worried about.
>> Talk all day about this. Pri, it's good
to see you. Thanks for dropping by. I
hope we kept you out of trouble. Anyway,
Pri Misra of JP Morgan Asset Management.
Let's get you an update on news
elsewhere worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief, including some breaking news from
the UK with more. Here's Yahihira. Hey,
Yahara.
>> Exactly. John Angela Rener has resigned
as UK deputy prime minister after an
investigation by an ethics adviser into
her tax affairs. Rener admitted in a
statement that she had underpaid
property taxes on the purchase of a
second home, but says she didn't act
dishonestly, arguing she had followed
legal advice given to her at the time
that later proved incorrect. Meanwhile,
President Trump is asking the Supreme
Court to let him fire the only remaining
Democrat on the Federal Trade
Commission, teeing up a case that could
overturn a 90-year-old president. Trump
is arguing he has the constitutional
right to fire FTC Commissioner. Rebecca
Slaughter for any reason, while
Slaughter argues the president can only
remove her for cause. And another win
for Amanda Anisova at the US Open. The
American beat Naomi Osaka of Japan in a
thrilling three-step battle last night.
The victory sets up a final match
between Ana Samova and reigning champion
Arena Sabalanka. And tonight, Italy's
Yanik Center faces Felix Alysm of Canada
in the men's semi-final. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. Up next
on the program, Myron pledging
independence.
I have received advice from council that
uh what is required is an unpaid leave
of absence from the council of economic
adviserss. If I'm confirmed to this
role, I will act independently as the
Federal Reserve always does.
Independence of monetary policy is a
critical element for its success. That
conversation up next with George Pollock
of Signal.
[Music]
If you are just joining us, welcome to
the program. Stocks positive here by
0.2% 2% on the S&P on the NASDAQ up by
0.5. Under Sylvanas this morning, Steven
Myron pledging independence.
>> I have received advice from council that
uh what is required is an unpaid leave
of absence from the council of economic
adviserss. And so considering the term
for which I'm being nominated is a
little bit uh more than 4 months. That
is what I will be taking. Uh if I as as
long as that is the advice of council, I
will follow the law. Well, uh, your
independence has already been seriously
compromised by your statement. You are
going to be technically an employee of
the president of the United States, but
an independent member of the board of
the Federal Reserve. That's ridiculous.
So, here's the latest this morning.
Steven Marin reiterating his intentions
to preserve central bank independence as
Democratic senators grill President
Trump's Fed Governor pick in his
confirmation hearing. With the latest,
here's Tyler Kendall with more. Hey,
Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, you
played it right there. One of the
biggest headlines that we got out of
this hearing was the fact that Steven
Myron told lawmakers that he intends to
take an unpaid leave of absence from his
position as the chair at the White House
Council of Economic Adviserss if he is
confirmed to this role to be a Fed
governor. And that's partly because this
is a temporary position and the term
would be up in January. And you heard
Myron say that he was advised by his
lawyers that if he were to be appointed
to perhaps a longer term, then he would
give up the White House post. But the
fact that he's not resigning from the
CEA altogether was something that
Democrats really did capitalize on with
some of them actually reading Myron back
his own words from a 2024 paper where he
criticized what he called the revolving
door between the Fed and the executive
branch. Now, at this point, it does look
likely that he is headed towards a
speedy confirmation. And that's because
what's about to happen next is that the
Senate Banking Committee will likely
vote to advance his nomination to a full
floor vote. And at this point, we
haven't gotten any indications that any
Republicans are going to vote against
him. It would take four of them to vote
against him in order to sink that
nomination, likely teeing this up for a
vote ahead of that September meeting.
Now, John, I had mentioned that Myron
said that if he were to be appointed to
a longer term, then he would give up
that White House post. I think it's uh
worth pointing out that last week,
President Trump had actually floated
suggested that maybe Myron could be up
for Lisa Cook's seat if he is successful
in firing her. Of course, we got
confirmation yesterday. Bloomberg News
reporting that the DOJ has officially
opened its criminal investigation into
Cook over those allegations of mortgage
fraud as Cook sues President Trump and
his attempts to ouster her.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest in
Washington. Tyler, thank you. To build
on that conversation, George Pollock of
Signnum joins us now for more. George,
welcome back to the program. Quick
question from me. Will Steven Myron be
at the Federal Reserve by the time they
decide on monetary policy on the 17th?
>> So, thank you for having me. Our base
case since towards the end of August has
been that he will be on the Federal
Reserve before the FOMC meeting in the
middle of September.
>> How much clout will he actually have on
uh the FOMC committee given that he has
a fourmonth term? He's one person. He
might make a lot of noise in the
meeting, but otherwise does it matter?
>> No, I think he's not going to have a
tender cloud as you guys were previously
discussing. The FOMC is a board of 12.
He'll be one voice, but he'll be the
loud voice. He'll be the one stating the
president's preferred monetary policy
and laying out why he thinks the Fed's
policy should go a certain direction.
He's not going to sit in the background
and be quiet. He will likely be more of
a thorn in the side to Fed Chair Jerome
Powell.
>> Do you sort of bristle at the
comparisons between the Supreme Court
and the Federal Reserve given the fact
that people are talking about a
majority? This is something that John
was mentioning earlier and we were
talking about this idea that it's not
quite the same in terms of the political
appointments on a body with a set goal
dual mandate of employment and
inflation.
>> I don't know if Bristol is maybe too
strong a word and I but I do understand
the distinction. I think our concern is
here. We've seen the president be
willing to push institutions to the
breaking points. And we agree with
John's point about Waller and Bowman
being seriousminded people who care
about the Fed. But it's with this
president in particular who has shown a
willingness
to take things to the limit. And that's
why when we speak with clients and why
when we speak with people like
yourselves, we always say there's the
tail risk that there's uncertainty about
how far the president is willing to go
and whether or not he's willing to push
the likes of Waller and Bowman or follow
the road map set out by his attempted
firing of Lisa Cook.
>> And George, with that in mind, how much
this Congress is willing to let the
president keep on pushing and whether we
start to see some push back. Can you
just sort of frame Senator Tillis's
comments earlier this week and where you
think this is going and whether we will
get that push back from Congress?
>> I think we're not going to see that push
back with Myin. We've seen it. We've
seen that he's said enough. Even though,
as you laid out, he's already discussed
his views of Fed independence last year,
but I think with Lisa Cook, we're seeing
with Senator Tillis, Chairman French
Hill in the House, there's legitimate
concern that we they cannot move forward
with Cook until the process is truly
adjudicated. And I do think that comes
from a sincere place because they they
can understand and game this out where
if the process plays out and they have a
confirmed nominee while it's still going
or even going through a nominee while
the process plays out, there's a chance
of destabilizing the institution further
and creating the perception of two Fed
Fed board member two Fed governors for
one seat.
>> That gentleman with respect for due
process and we should leave time for
that and space. And George, I know you
agree with that notion. I want to
understand though how different this
Senate is though compared to the Senate.
the Republican le Senate under the
president's first term because we did
have push back with certain select
individuals that were nominated to the
board of the Federal Reserve. I remember
well what happened with Steven Moore. He
never got his hearing. And George, I
want to understand if things are somehow
different this time and if they are, how
so?
No, I think that's a good point. And we
we saw other Fred nominees for the
president be be rejected in the first in
the first term. The progression here is
we've seen the likes of Senator Bob
Corker replaced by those like Bill
Hagerty or Marshia Blackburn. We've seen
much like the House has transformed from
more of a traditional Republican House
into a more mega populist house, we've
kind of seen the Senate go the same
exact direction and that it's more it's
more populist, more willing to back the
president and many of these newer
senators have the president to thank for
their electoral success. There is a
feeling though with Tom Tillis for
example of North Carolina. He's not
running again. He is stepping back and
so there is a perception of a greater
degree of independence and he has been
pretty plain spoken about his opinions
uh in the past number of years. I just
wonder if there's a feeling that they're
saving their ammunition for something
else and I just wonder you know if so
what's going to be that threshold or do
you see this is a president able to push
like you said before uh in a more
significant way unfettered.
But I think even with Tillis being
outspoken and I I agree with you that
he's probably saving his saving his
opportunity to really push back. The
issue is as you as you guys noted ear as
Miss Kendall noted earlier they can lose
they need to lose four votes. And while
you have the likes of Tillis, you have
the likes of Collins and you have the
likes of Marowski who might be running
for governor.
They don't getting that fourth vote is
so difficult. And the issue is, as we
saw yesterday with Secretary Kennedy's
um hearing about his control of the of
the CDC,
they're they're able to be believable
enough in the confirmation process to
get into power. And at that juncture,
it's too late. And for many of these
senators, while these institutional
concerns are significant, they also have
parochial concerns that are more
important to the day-to-day lives of
their constituents.
>> George, appreciate your time and your
take as always. George Pyther of Signnum
Global Adviserss. the interview start,
don't they? Going into the weekend for
the next Federal Reserve chair. The
quality of the candidates really
matters. With everything George said in
mind,
>> a lot of people thought that uh
President Trump was putting a person who
would be very controversial and would be
a lightning rod in the Fed for four
months and then would pick someone who'd
be highly credible to the markets. the
fact uh that Scott Besson is running
this process. We know how he feels about
the bond market and sure he can play his
part in issuance. But there is a feeling
that this has to be a credible candidate
in order to get through and in order not
to cause those bond vigilantes to come
back from Europe and settle back down in
the United States.
>> I think as Pamera said, they'd like them
to stay over in Europe and not come
over.
>> They're they're going to ship them out.
That's I think we're going to try. Let's
see how it works.
>> Coming up on the program, Michael
Nathansson of Moffett Nathansson as a
grateful Google CEO visits the White
House. Plus, we'll catch up with Danny
with your morning movers following Tesla
and a pay package which could be worth
$1 trillion.
Tesla up 2% from New York. You're
watching Bloomberg.
[Music]
The payrolls report about 60 minutes
away. The estimate in our survey 75K.
The high 144. The low is at zero. The
range is pretty wide. going into the
jobs report going into that figure into
that data equity futures positive by two
ten of 1% on the S&P on the NASDAQ 100
up by 0.5 record highs coming into
Friday morning let's see if we can build
on the gains in the bond market 2-year
10year 30-year bond yields down on the
week on Tuesday at the front end down
for four consecutive weeks with sub 360
now at the lows of the year
>> so is this a good bond yield curve uh
dropping lower or is this a bad yield
curve that has and compressing or at
least remaining within control. And
that's really the key question. What is
going to be the response from a negative
job sprint or a zero job sprint or
something that's weaker. Is that going
to be a positive for risk assets or is
that going to be considered a negative
for the economy? And that I think is
sort of the tension under the hood in
the bond space.
>> Well, let's just sit on that. Just an
observation. No prediction about the
future at all. Let's just go over the
past month or so. the last 5 weeks. The
whole curve this week has dropped down,
but we've seen a real steepening over
the last 5 weeks, but that's been led by
what's happened at the front end of the
curve. That's not been a consequence of
softer inflation, Prince. We've had a
little bit of that relative to what we
expected off the back of the tariffs.
Most of it's been off the back of the
payrolls report at the start of the
month and the labor market data
continued to weaken based on the reasons
we've seen this week alone in things
like jolts, things like jobless claims,
things like the ISMs where the
employment component hasn't been great
at all. If you want to call that bad, I
would often agree with you on that
matter. That doesn't look like the right
kind of rate cuts to me. That looks like
a Fed that's been concerned about what's
happening with the labor market.
>> Which is the reason why your question is
such a good one about whether the Fed
would be cutting into a downturn that
would then reacelerate growth or whether
it was cutting into a reaceleration
because ultimately that is the key
question. Is this the beginning of a
string of weakness or is this uh just
sort of a head fake before all of the
investment plans that we heard yesterday
in the Rose Garden really come to
fruition? That's what makes a market.
That's what's great about sitting in the
seat. We don't have to make a call.
Other people do.
>> Great.
>> Because there are little signs of
reacelerations in the markets here,
there, and everywhere in equities and
the cyclical tilt that we've seen and
the data in the ISMs with the new orders
starting to pick up. That's what makes
this moment going into this meeting in
two weeks time so interesting.
>> Yeah. So, I'll stop talking. Read the
beige book. Let me know what you think.
>> Beige book doesn't look good.
>> No, it doesn't. I'm telling you.
>> Not at all. I know.
>> I actually recommend it. Read it. It's
>> why this Fed is a little bit
uncomfortable right now.
>> Might be a little yippy.
>> Yeah. Bond market's not though. That's
the good news. Two hours away from the
cash open and one hour away from the
payroll report. Let's get you some
single names. Some morning movers with
Danny Burger. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Speaking of major investments
from tech players, a big partnership for
Broadcom. It will be teaming up with
OpenAI to develop AI chips specifically
for the company. A potential real run
for Nvidia. A real run at them. Shares
are up 11.2%. The CEO of Broadcom saying
they've already had $10 billion worth of
orders and they are going to start the
development and shipping out of those
chips starting next year. A different
fortune for Lululemon, which reported
earnings. Yet another quarter where
they've had to cut their outlook. The
third consecutive quarter. A lot of
things weighing on them. For one, it's
some things that all retailers are
dealing with like changing consumer
behaviors. Tariffs, a 240 million dollar
hit is what they see. But again, the
problem for them is it seems like these
younger rivals, that of Aloe, that of
Yori are really challenging them and the
tastes have moved away from Lulu. So
those shares down more than 19%. Also,
at the top of the last hour, we learned
about a new pay package, a proposed one
for Elon Musk. Say hello to the world's
first $1 trillion man. Once fully
vested, this pay package would give him
$1 trillion. It's a 10-year time
horizon. There are a lot of targets he
needs to hit. That includes expanding
the robo taxi fleet, getting valuations
of Tesla to $8.5 trillion. Of course,
all of it also trying to keep Musk at
Tesla, giving him 25% stake of the
company. So, those shares of 2%. John
>> Danny Burgerer with the latest. Danny,
thank you. More from Danny in the next
hour. On our radar this morning, Federal
Reserve Governor Lisa Kirk saying a
court ruling in favor of Harvard
University backs her argument that
President Trump's attempt to fire her is
a pretext. She claims his real agenda is
taking control of the Fed. Elsewhere,
President Trump looking to dampen
today's labor market data, saying the
real jobs numbers will come next year.
This morning's report will be the first
since the president fired the BLS
commissioner in July. And finally,
President Trump pushing for two
candidates to drop out at the New York
City mayor race to help end Zoramani's
bid. The president saying he prefers not
to have what he calls a communist
running the city.
>> And the other part of this story is that
uh reportedly the administration offered
Eric Adams a job in the administration
or other potential jobs if he were to
drop out of the race. He has denied
those reports. Nonetheless, it's sort of
interesting to see him say, "Look, I'm a
New Yorker. I'm from New York. Care
about the city. I don't want a
communist. There's been some support
from other people in the uh in the you
know work community in the United in New
York City, particularly in Wall Street.
And you just wonder, you know, are a lot
of people coalesing around this.
>> I talked to Amarie about this earlier in
the week who's not with us today. She's
got a day off. And she said to me, I
think this is proof that he does care
about the city because if you really
think about things, this individual
getting elected to run New York City
could well be a good thing for the
Republican party going into the midterms
next year. Isn't this what they want? to
run against the extreme and how things
are going in New York and to have the
poster child of failure. They always
talk about Gavin Newsome in California.
Wouldn't this be a good thing to run on
next year?
>> Yeah, I mean that's one argument. And so
you could argue that he actually just
really cares about New York City. I
don't know. This has been a really
unconventional 24 months. I imagine it
will continue to be and watch this
space. I think the New York City
election is very close to me. So I want
to not say too much. Uh since I am a New
York City resident,
>> everyone wants to know what you think.
No. No. Yeah. I I don't think anyone
needs to know it, I think, because
ultimately it goes down to uh a real
tension in the city that's been pre
prevalent for a long time. The president
wants to weigh in. He's blurred the
lines between federal, state, and local
governments. That's been an issue. Uh
the flip side, a lot of people on Wall
Street are probably welcoming this. And
that's all I'll say.
>> We've got two months to tease this out.
>> Oh, thank God.
>> Two more months. Sounds awful.
>> Let's turn to tech. Top executives
praising the Trump administration with
the Google CEO thanking the president
after Google's antitrust win.
>> Well, you had a very good day yesterday.
Google had a very good day yesterday.
And do you want to talk about that big
day you had yesterday?
>> It's a long process. I appreciate that,
you know, your administration had a
constructive dialogue and we were able
to get it to some some resolution.
Michael Nathansson of Moffett Nathansson
has a buy rating of 230 price target on
Alphabet shares and writes the
following. This outcome is a home run
for the status quo and the status quo
has been very favorable to Google.
Michael joins us now for more. Michael,
welcome to the program, sir. Just your
reflections on what happened earlier
this week and then we can get to whether
there are some competitors that can
really break up the status quo.
>> Yeah, uh good morning Jonathan. That was
the best outcome obviously possible. The
market had been really fearful of what
the courts could have done here and it
could have hurt Apple deeply and
Alphabet deeply and you you look at this
and say to your point the court was
smart to say change is coming anyway why
are we going to accelerate whatever is
happening let's let the markets decide
the future of search so I was really
pleased as a Google bull alphabet bull
But I thought it was a really smart
decision by the judge to kind of step
back and say this is going to change
anyway. Let's see where technology moves
us. Right.
>> So Michael, how do you think it's going
to change and why stay constructive on
this name?
>> Okay, good question. So what's going to
happen is search as we know it has
changed already, right? Search is moving
from links to answers. If you use open
AI chatbt or even the new AI mode on at
on Google you're seeing a different type
of search that is mostly happening
informational queries not commercial
queries right so our view is it's going
to take a long time for commercial
queries you know find me the best hotel
in Boston uh find me you know a new dog
food for my dog those searches are still
happening more traditionally and I think
what's going to happen is as less
um queries you know basically more
queries will stop at the you know the
head end of an AI mode the queries that
remain questions that remain will be
more valuable for the people who are
selling answers right does that make
sense to you Jonathan so our view is
that the price of you know the traffic
to people's websites will only go up
because there'll be less traffic going
to people's websites as more answers are
are headed off at people like an open AI
AI or you know AI mode at Google.
>> So it's consolidating all of the uh
attention on a smaller group of names.
So it's a more valuable proposition. Do
you think that Google needs to really
now ramp up any type of open AI
competitor any kind of chatbot
artificial intelligence induced search
result in the next 2 3 months. They have
a time uh on them a clock on them to
sort of show their metal in their
competition with open AI.
>> So it's interesting. I would say to you,
if you had me on two years ago, a year
ago, I'd be very nervous about their
speed to market and their ability to
change. They've been changing the past
couple months pretty aggressively. They
had a an event called IO back in May.
They launched a bunch of new products.
If you look, if you look at what's
happening in real time at, you know, AI
mode on Google search, you're seeing
tremendous change. So, I think the
ramping is happening in current in the
current time frame. I am less worried
than I was a year ago about their
ability to change. I think they've
realized our job is is to deliver
consumer satisfaction. Our job is not to
hold on to business models that have
been great to us. We need to basically
look at what consumers want and give it
to them. And if you dig into what Google
is now providing, it's really massively
changed. So I think you will see in the
next six six months to year even more
change. And it's going to be multimodal.
you'll see change when it comes to video
search and, you know, an image search.
They're really moving quickly to create,
you know, a 360 view of search that's
just more than text. So, I'm pretty
bullish on their product roadmap and
what we've seen so far. I think that's
the big change that the market has woken
up and said they're not dead. They're
not sleeping at, you know, at the wheel.
They see the challenge from Chad Chet
and they're taking it on pretty
aggressively. You mentioned Apple uh and
that they also benefited from that and I
wonder a lot of people waking up to the
fact that Apple's not dead as well in
the past couple of days at least by
virtue of their share price. Were you
comforted by the fact that Tim Cook was
at that meeting yesterday and it seemed
like the president seemed a lot more
amendable to him calling out some of the
investments and even giving him a nod
with their India presence.
>> Yeah. So Craig, my partner covers Apple.
We had a sell on Apple heading into the
court, you know, the court findings.
We're really worried that they would
lose 20 billion plus of payments from
Alphabet, which was pretty much all
profit. The Jonathan's point about the
status quo remaining is incredibly
positive for Apple that they can work
with Google. Maybe they build a new Siri
product that's been rumored. Uh they
don't have to lose 20 billion plus of
payments. And then to your point on this
administration, the administration has
been very very positive and they could
have been a lot more aggressive in
pushing Apple to move production to more
expensive markets. So I think it's a
massive win-win for Apple. Tim Cook has
played his cards perfectly here and then
he got the benefit of Judge Meta
allowing him to kind of maintain that
relationship with Alphabet. So you had
in a matter of a week two stocks um
Google, Alphabet and Apple that were
really underweighted by a lot of
investors come back to the forefront and
that's why the market's been so strong.
It's been a great outcome for these
guys.
>> Michael, just before you go, do you pay
much attention to seating plans and who
gets the seat next to the president? Do
you read anything between the lines?
>> Um probably. I probably do. Right, John?
I did not see the seating plans last
night. I apologize. I was too busy
watching too busy watching Mark
Zuckerberg was the first person next to
him. I'll give you that cheat sheet.
>> Thank you so much. Well, look how much
Mark Zuckerberg is spending right now
out of nowhere in capex, right? They've
just massively ramped up uh their
investment in the US on data centers,
right? In Ohio and Louisiana, right? So,
he's spending spending spending. He has
Dana White on his board now. He's done
more than anyone I I could think of to
get back into the good graces of this
administration.
>> Michael, appreciate your time. It's good
to hear from you as always. You're a
good sport. Michael Nathansson there of
Moffett. Nathansson talking about his
colleague, his right-hand man Craig. New
price target 225, new call rather
neutral, no longer a sale. Not exactly a
ringing endorsement though of the stock.
To be sure, Apple remains a very
expensive stock and its AI challenges
remain. The worst case scenarios are off
the table. That's the good news. But
north of 30 time next year's earnings is
still in our view too rich for any
company with good but not great earnings
growth.
>> They're exposed to all the potential
risk cases across the world. Right.
competition coming not only from Chinese
manufacturers but also from the likes of
Samsung that's come out with a foldable
phone that ev evidently is a new hot
thing. I never understood it. Evidently,
if you fold it, it can potentially be a
problem on the hinges if you don't get
it perfect. The crease and the
difficulty with that. I mean, I could
just imagine someone getting crumbs in
it and then you have to get a new one.
Whatever. Moving on. There's a real
question about how much of a product
cycle upgrade they need to really get
into the more favorable graces of Wall
Street
>> and how much of is actually coming next
week. People don't think not much. Yeah,
I mean that's the whole thing. I mean,
they got to really deliver and a lot of
people are saying we're just not seeing
it.
>> Apple at the moment down by about two
ten of 1% at the pre-market. Let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here's your Bloomberg brief
with you. How are you hierra?
>> Hi, John. Sticking with Apple, its
annual sales in India hit a record of
nearly $9 billion in the last fiscal
year. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg, Apple's revenue rose about
13% in the 12 months through March,
boosted by iPhones and MacBooks. This
comes as Apple invests more into the
country as it expects India to become a
key market in the coming years.
Meanwhile, Boeing is hiring new workers
to replace striking defense unit
employees. The company's vice president
says they must take this step to ensure
proper staffing and customer support.
About 3,200 union members have been on
strike since August 4th. The workers
assemble and maintain F-15 fighter jets
and missile systems.
And President Trump will sign an
executive order today changing the name
of the Department of Defense to the
Department of War. That's according to a
White House official. The president has
long mused about changing the name of
the department. However, an official
name change would likely require an act
of Congress. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. Appreciate it. Up next
on the program, waiting for the real
numbers.
>> We have a jobs report coming out. the
first since the BLS commiss commissioner
who you fired uh won't be there. Can you
commit to saying the data will be
>> the the number I don't know but uh the
real numbers that I'm talking about are
going to be whatever it is but uh will
be in a year from now.
>> A conversation up next with Steve
Rashuto of Missou from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Equities
positive here up 0.1% on the S&P on the
NASDAQ higher by about 0.49.
The opening battle of course a few hours
away. Before that setting the tone for
financial markets worldwide 8:30 Eastern
time, 41 minutes from now, you'll get
the payrolls report. Under surveillance
this morning, waiting for the real
numbers.
>> We have a jobs report coming out. The
first since the BLS commissioner who you
fired uh won't be there. Can you commit
to saying the data will be
>> the the number? I don't know.
uh the real numbers that I'm talking
about are going to be whatever it is,
but we'll be in a year from now. I think
you'll see job numbers that are going to
be absolutely incredible. You're going
to see job numbers like our country has
never seen before.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump forecasting
absolutely incredible jobs for next
year. While traders anticipate a tepid
August payrolls report, the estimate in
our survey expecting 75K to be added.
Steve Rashuto of Missou has a more
bullish call. He's looking for 90,000.
Steve joins us now for more. Steve, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Would 90 be enough to derail that rate
cut for this month?
>> No. I mean, Jerome Pal opened the door
pretty wide at Jackson Hole. Um, the
market has walked through it. So, now
you kind of need a knockout punch. Um,
you didn't get it in the jelts data. Um,
the claims numbers certainly didn't
change much at all either. Uh, they're
still showing a healthy labor market.
So, now you need a knockout punch. And I
think you'd probably need to see a
combination of factors. You'd probably
need to see payrolls in 125 to 150,000
with no major downward revision. You'd
probably need to see 0.4 versus 0.3 in
hourly earnings. And more importantly of
all those, you'd probably need to see
the employment rate drop to 4.1% instead
of going up to 4.3 from 4.2 because it's
the jobless rate that is the most
political aspect of this report.
>> On the flip side, how low is the bar or
how high is the bar for them to cut 50
basis points?
Um yeah, that's a very very good
question. Um 4.4% unemployment rate
would get you there quickly. Um 0.1% in
hourly earnings probably wouldn't. Um
definitely a payroll employment number
in the 0 to 25 range would certainly
increase the ante of a 50.
>> So I want to have a battle of the
Steves. We had Steven Inglador on
earlier and now we have Steve Rashido.
Stephen England are saying that he
actually does see justification for a 50
basis point rate cut because ultimately
the revisions have been so weak. And
when you take a look at the overall data
and the modeling, you can actually see
an even less exciting labor market than
some people are are saying. You don't
think that it's needed at all and that
the Fed could just remain pat. So can
you square that difference, bridge that
gap?
>> Well, it really comes down to how
restrictive you think the Fed is. um you
know the market seems to be of a mindset
that our start uh which I hate that
concept um is at 1% which means 3% is
neutral and at four and a half
effectively at the upper end of the
range the Fed is 150 basis points too
restrictive. So if you start from that
presumption then you build the story
that Steve and England are produced. If
you start from the view that you've got
a 2% real rate, then you're 4% if you're
credible on a 2% inflation, then you're
50 basis points restrictive against the
financial market that's extraordinarily
accommodative. Against the financial
market where the dollar has moved lower
and a market in which, you know, we're
doing record numbers of corporate deals
and they're four times overs subscribed.
We've got excess liquidity in the
system. Is 50 basis points too
restrictive? That's really the rub
between the two. It comes down to this
theoretical construct of RSTA start
telling you whether policy is
restrictive or not and I personally
believe RARD should be equivalent to the
underlying trend rate of growth in the
economy which is 2%. Not 1%.
>> Which model do you think the Federal
Reserve is running off the Rashuto model
or the Englander model?
>> Given the long-term Fed funds rate
assumption in the last SCP of 3% they're
running primarily at the Steen Englander
model. And this has become the
intellectual gravity well that
everything falls to the SCP and the
dots.
>> Any reason for that to change?
>> Well, they did change the uh forward
guidance in terms of where monetary
policy is going to be going, they've
gone from a Keynesian approach back to a
John Taylor type approach. And I think
when you look at some of the former real
does like Austin Goulsby uh and Williams
of the New York Fed who out in the last
day or so were basically you know
pulling back from this thing that maybe
we're we're very restrictive and even
the chairman said it himself at Jackson
Hole that we're not very restrictive. If
they're following a model that you think
is too dovish, that you think is
ultimately pegged to an incorrect
assessment of where neutral is, then why
haven't we seen an increase in inflation
expectations?
>> Uh, that is one of the the hardest
questions to answer and I think is
because for so long we have had a
Federal Reserve that has been able to
accomplish a 2% inflation rate. Um, and
you had such a little impact from the
tariffs. You still have a global
deflationary force out there. Japan,
China, not Japan anymore. Uh, China,
which is a very very significant global
deflationary force. Uh, you have energy
prices which have been moving lower,
which are very very akin to people's
inflation expectations. So, I think when
you put all those factors together, I
can see why the bond market has been
more sanguin about it. And there's also
this underlying bet that if push comes
to shove, Bessant will do what's
necessary at the long end of the curve
to make sure long-term yields don't go
up.
>> And long-term yields have been going
down, at least so far this week.
>> Correct.
>> But to me, I just wonder, okay, well
then what's the trigger point? Do we
start to see inflation under the rashid
model in a way that does push yields
materially higher? Or can you bet on
some sort of arrangement of issuance and
uh purchases?
>> Might see this play out. They might
actually test that theory. If they do
cut interest rates down towards 3% over
the next 12 months, we'll see.
>> I feel like we're all just staring into
a black box and examining the black box
from different angles and saying every
single day. I mean, honestly, you're
talking about mush. It's like every
industry has its own macroeconomic
backdrop and we're trying to put them
together and it just feels a little bit
like mush.
>> Just quickly, where do you think they do
land next year? What do you think
they're cutting rates down to? Well,
again, I mean, if if if you're in my
camp, um, and you you think 4% would be
neutral, 2% real, 2% inflation, if
they're credible on 2% inflation,
they're not,
>> then then you're probably in the 3 and
3/4 to four area.
>> Steve, appreciate it as always. Credible
arguments from Steve Rashido of Missouo
as always on the Federal Reserve.
>> I love Rashido versus Englander. The big
battle.
>> That was you trying to start that fight.
>> Well, no, I love it. You know, honestly,
this is really the ultimate battle
though on Wall Street. Are we heading
into a reaceleration uh that is
inflationary and is the Fed going to
juice that or are we going to stave off
some sort of downturn? That is the crux
of the discussion and no one has an
answer. So don't look at me for one
because I can't provide one.
>> I tell you what I hope never mind the
inflation story. I hope we are going
into reaceleration. The subtle signs of
new orders picking up and the ISMs this
week. I really do hope for the good of
the economy that's the real deal going
into year end. The reason why this is
such a confusing story, every CEO I've
spoken to has said that they've been
able to raise prices and raise them
selectively because of low oil prices.
So, you put that together, what does
that do if oil prices go up? What does
that mean about persistent inflation?
The payrolls report just around the
corner. More struggling, no doubt at
8:30 Eastern time. In just a moment,
we'll catch up with the US Commerce
Secretary Howard Lutnik. Plus, Nadia
Lovevel of UBS, Stephanie Roth of Wolf
Research, and Jeff Rosenberg of Black
Rockck. The third hour of Bloom
surveillance just around a corner.
Consumers are telling us pretty clearly
that labor market conditions are
deteriorating.
>> Looks like interest rate cuts are
coming.
>> If they're cutting because labor markets
are weak, I think that's negative.
>> The job market, it's in a state of
stasis.
>> Things will break one way or the other.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Bramowitz, and An
Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
And your scores look like this. Coming
into Friday at all-time highs on the S&P
500. Futures positive this morning by
0.1%. On the NASDAQ, we're positive by
0.4. in the bond market 2-year, 10-year,
and 30-year really well behaved on the
week. Yields lower across the curve on
the week, down on the session on a
2-year. New lows for the year, 358 34 at
the very front end of the yield curve
going into this at 8:30 Eastern time.
Now, I say 8:30, but I don't know if
it's going to be 8:30 anymore because
moments ago, this headline just crossed
the Bloomberg terminal. The BLS
experiencing technical difficulties
going into the payrolls report.
Evidently, we should have taken
President Trump literally when he said
that it was under construction last
night. Uh BLS saying that their data
retrieval tools are not available on the
website. We do know that sometimes when
that 8:30 time rolls around because so
many people are clicking on the website,
it takes a minute to load. This does
seem to be a real question though about
what's going on over there as well as
when exactly we will be getting this
payroll number.
>> Mike McKe is standing by. We'll cross
over to Mike McKe in just a moment in
Washington DC. But this is a tough one
for this market. A lot hinges on this
going into this Federal Reserve meeting
later this month.
>> A lot of people say that the bar is
pretty low for the Fed to cut rates.
They will cut rates. The bar is pretty
high for them to hold off. But a real
question here about not only what the
numbers are, but how accurate they are,
how much the market is going to be
looking to this is sort of the gold
standard. The revisions also very
important at a time where Stephen
Englander uh sat here just a bit ago
this morning and said he sees 70,000
revisions downward as the normal trend.
>> So stand by. This is meant to happen in
about 28 minutes time. We'll see if it
does. We can head down to the nation's
capital where Mike McKe is standing by.
Michael, what's your read on the
headlines that just crossed moments ago?
>> Well, it's a computerized world and
computers have issues. We've seen this
before with BLS sometimes when we've
they have loaded stuff into the computer
and it's gone out early and other times
in which it has been delayed. They went
through a process when they first went
to all electronic releases of slow
release times because so many people
were overwhelming their servers. Don't
know what the problem is here this time,
but I'm sure they are working as hard as
they can and we'll get the numbers as
quickly as we can and get them to you.
>> Well, Mike, let's talk about the numbers
we've had already. We've had a real step
down. The 3-month average at 35K. The
range today is pretty wide. The high is
144. The low is zero. The median's 75.
What's your approach to these numbers
this morning?
I think I'm going to go with the folks
at the whisper number who are just going
along with what the consensus is. We
don't really know. And we need to
separate out this month from what the
revisions are that we're going to get
because we're going to be looking for
the latest data. And while it may come
in a little bit uh less reliable, it's
still going to be as accurate as
possible given the response rate that
what they get, whatever they get. Uh
75,000 is definitely a slowdown. It's in
the ballpark of what several Fed
officials have said lately is the
replacement rate, the number of jobs you
need each month to keep the unemployment
rate from going up. Uh the estimates
were anywhere from uh m from about
30,000 to 80,000. So 75,000 would keep
us in that range.
uh we are looking at the possibility of
the unemployment rate going up but only
by a little bit. So if we get that kind
of number it would imply to the Fed that
we're sort of status quo and the story
about people not hiring but not firing
is still there. But since JPL opened the
door to a rate cut given what we saw
with the revisions last time that it
would take a lot for them to change
their mind. Mike, you said something
earlier this morning that made me smile
and I repeated it uh subsequently where
you said the uh expected number is
75,000 for the job creation and the
whisper number is 75,000 which means
that nobody knows nothing and nobody has
an edge on where we are in terms of the
median estimate and I just wonder from
your perspective whether the headline
number matters more or the unemployment
rate the revisions what are you looking
for to give you a sense of the compass
of markets?
Oh, well, if you're going to ask about
the compass of markets, I'd say the
headline rate and the revisions are what
people are going to be looking at today.
The Fed prefers to look at the
unemployment rate because they see that
as a more reliable statistic. Remember,
it is not revised. So, uh that's
something they can hang their hat on.
And if the unemployment rate is going
up, as you remember a couple of years
ago how we talked about this constantly,
the SAM rule, uh when unemployment
starts to rise, it tends to rise at a
faster pace each month. Uh if that were
the case, then the Fed would really be
worried about the economy slowing down.
So that's why they're looking at
unemployment rather than the headline
number. But given the president raised
all these issues, now people are looking
at uh the headline and the revisions.
>> At the same time, Mike, it's not just
the president. A lot of economists and
even Fed officials themselves have
raised issues about Bureau of Labor
Statistics. some of the old models of
calling people on phones, landlines at a
time when a lot of people are responding
to things more online, the response
times. I'm just wondering, what do the
Fed officials and other economists who
you speak to want to see from the BLS in
terms of changes to make that data more
reliable and less uh I guess late,
delayed, or even questioned?
Well, it's not so much what they expect
from the BLS, it's what the BLS can
accomplish given its manpower and its
funding. They have switched over the
past couple of years. Yesterday, Steven
Meer said they haven't been doing
anything, and that's completely wrong.
They've switched over the last couple of
years to uh much more electronic filing,
making it easier for companies to send
in their data. They've simplified the
forms, but companies are still not
sending in the data as quickly and the
response rate for the first release has
dropped. Uh we we're in the 40s for the
last couple of months, 40% range. But uh
over the next two months, the response
rates have stayed about the same about
95%. So eventually they're getting all
the data in. Just a question of how the
mar how the the companies can be
persuaded to move more quickly and with
the response rate that they get. Maybe
they get 42 45%. They're still going to
be accurate numbers based on the data
that they have. They're not going to be
manipulated. They're not going to be
wrong within that data set. It's just
that the additional data that comes in
over the next two months is going to
change what the overall picture is. On
the household survey side for
unemployment, they're still doing phone
calls. They are still uh trying to
figure out how to do perhaps some
computerized uh stuff as well. Mike McKe
with the latest down in Washington DC.
We'll see if we get the numbers at 8:30
Eastern time. So, this is the latest
from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
saying it's experiencing technical
difficulties. And Lisa, data retrieval
tools are currently not available on the
website.
>> Let's see how quickly they can get this
back up. And we are now just about 12
minutes ahead of that report or I
believe 22 minutes.
>> 22. Sorry, I always leave that to you to
correct me in my arithmetic.
>> You know, this we struggled to count
apparently. All right,
>> I'm getting out my abacus.
>> 8:30 Eastern time for the payroll
report. We'll see if it drops on time.
Let's turn to trade. We're going to
catch up with the Treasury Secretary,
the Commerce Secretary rather. We begin
this hour, of course, with President
Donald Trump signing an executive order
putting his trade deal with Japan into
place. The agreement will apply a
baseline 15% tariff on nearly all
Japanese imports entering the US,
including automobiles. The government of
Japan has also agreed to invest $550
billion in the United States. Joining us
now, I'm very pleased to say, is the
United States Secretary of Commerce,
Howard Lucknit. Mr. Secretary, welcome
to the program, sir. I know you wanted
to talk about Japan, so let's do that. I
want you to share with us the terms of
this $550 billion investment fund, a
core pillar, of course, of the
negotiations that you've been helping to
lead with the Japanese. Can you share
with us the details this morning, sir?
>> Sure. So, this is a completely different
kind of trade deal than anyone's ever
seen before. So the idea is the Japanese
government will give $550 billion to
Donald Trump to invest as the United
States and Donald Trump sees fit in
America. So the Japanese will get back
their money and 90% of the profits will
go to the American citizens, the
American taxpayer. So Donald Trump, I'll
give you an example. We buy all of our
antibiotics, generic antibiotics in
China. So Donald Trump can say, "Let's
go build generic pharmaceuticals in
America. Let's build those antibiotics
in America. The Japanese will fund it
and then we will have generic
antibiotics in America. We'll no longer
be reliant on China." So it's in his
hands to invest. This is not ordinary
foreign companies investing. This is not
Mitsubishi building a plant in America.
This is $550 billion by the Japanese
government put in the hands of Donald
Trump that he can then invest in
America. It's amazing. I mean, it's the
thing I am most proud of. Maybe it's the
most proud I've ever been on a business
deal I've ever done.
>> So, it sounds amazing. Do the Japanese
think it's amazing? And have they
codified this agreement?
>> They have. So, yesterday it was all
signed. So the president signed the EO.
I signed theOU with uh Minister Akazawa
in the commerce department. This is
signed. It is written. So what happens
is Donald Trump can select the project
that he wants. We put a capital call
into the Japanese. They send in the
money and we build the project in
America. So if you think about this,
$550 billion invested during Donald
Trump's term is a half a point of GDP
given to the United States of America's
president by the Japanese government. I
mean, this is amazing. In order to have
a 15% tariff and so they can keep making
their cars in Japan.
>> Let's just stand the details, Mr.
Secretary. So the timeline, you talked
about the rest of the president's term.
Is there a clear timeline here? And
what's the enforcement mechanism to make
sure it happens?
>> Well, two things. Number one, they've
committed that they will meet the
capital cost. So when we're building a
project, they will fund the project's
building during the term. This
investment lasts through, meaning they
will put out the money through the rest
of Donald Trump's term. So January 2029
and let's say halfway through and
they've invested $250 billion dollars,
they stop saying, "I don't want to send
you any more money." The tariffs back,
you know, pop right back up and they no
longer receive the cash flow from these
projects. It would all just stay with
the United States of America. So there
there is just no way they're going to
not fund these projects. and Donald
Trump is going to deliver uh to the
American people. And this deal is
really, it's just, if you think about
it, $550 billion dollars of Japanese
government's money in order to buy down
their tariff in Donald Trump's hands for
his availability to invest and build
America. Alaska pipeline scale 50
billion, 100red billion. Donald Trump
wants to unleash the Alaska pipelines.
The Japanese will finance it and it's
great for America. It's fantastic.
>> Mr. Secretary, appreciate we've got a
number of topics to get through with you
in a short amount of time. So, I wanted
to turn to other issues and India. This
came from the president this morning on
social media. It looks like we've lost
India and Russia for that matter to
deepest, darkest China. May they have a
long and prosperous future together.
This relationship between the US and
India has clearly soured. You yourself
said earlier this year that India rubbed
the US the wrong way. There's an under
understandable tension that continues to
build. But they're not the only ones
buying Russian energy. The Chinese are
buying Russian energy and for that
matter the Europeans too. And I think
there's a sense from the Indian side,
Mr. Secretary, that they feel singled
out perhaps unfairly. What's your
comment, your message for them this
morning?
Well, remember before the Russian
conflict, the Indians bought less than
2% of their oil from Russia. Less than
2%. And now they're buying 40% of their
oil from Russia. What they're doing is
because the oil is sanctioned, it's
really, really cheap because the
Russians are trying to find people to
buy it. And so the Indians have just
decided, ah, the heck with it. Let's buy
it cheap and make a ton of money. But
you know what? That is just plain wrong.
It's ridiculous. And they either need to
decide which side they want to be on.
You know what's funny is remember the
Chinese sell.
>> The Chinese Well, we're always willing
to talk. The Chinese sell to us. The
Indians sell to us. They're not going to
be able to sell to each other. We are
the consumer of the world. People have
to remember it's our 30 trillion dollar
economy that is the consumer of the
world. So eventually they all have to
come back to the customer because we all
know eventually the customer is always
right.
>> When you are talking uh with India, Mr.
Secretary, I know a lot of companies in
the US have shifted manufacturing to
India from China. So there's a real
interest in this in terms of their
costs. How much do you feel like you've
lost leverage as a result of the court
case uh that came out fairly recently?
>> We we haven't lost uh any any respect to
the court case. If you look at the
descent, right, it was 7 to4. Read the
descent. Chief, the current chief
justice sided with President Trump. The
former Chief Justice sided with
President Trump and the incoming Chief
Justice sided with President Trump. and
the smartest guy on the bench which is
well known who the smartest guy on the
bench is. He sided with Donald Trump. So
I think you are going to see the Supreme
Court side with Donald Trump. And I
don't think we've lost leverage. What
we've lost is that India doesn't yet
want to open their market, stop buying
Russian oil, right? And stop being a
part of bricks, right? They're the vowel
between Russia and China. If that's who
you want to be, go be it. But either
support the dollar, support the United
States of America, support your biggest
client, who is the American consumer, or
I guess you're going to pay a 50% tariff
and let's see how long this lasts.
>> It seems like there's been a hardening
of the line both with President Trump as
well as uh Modi and a sense that there
isn't really a coming together. In fact,
that meeting with Xiinping and Vladimir
Putin and uh Prime Minister Modi seemed
to indicate a coalescing of the bricks.
Do you see anywhere in the next month,
two months any type of deal or backing
down to a lower rate with India?
>> I would expect like you saw it in
Canada, right? The uh Carney got elected
with uh this term elbows up, meaning
let's fight with America. They put on
retalatory tariffs. They were all
bravado. And what happened? Their GDP
negative 1.6%
unemployment rocketing towards 8%. And
what did Carney just do? He just finally
finally dropped his retaliatory tariffs.
So I think what happens is it's all
bravado because you think it feels good
to fight with the biggest client in the
world. But eventually your businesses
are going to say you've got to stop this
and go make your deal with America. So I
think yes in a month or two months I
think India is going to be at the table
and they're going to say they're sorry
and they're going to try to make a deal
with Donald Trump and it will be on
Donald Trump's desk how he wants to deal
with Modi and we leave that to him.
That's why he's the president.
>> Speaking of making a deal, I understand
the Swiss are in town. Just hearing that
the Swiss vice president has turned up
in the United States again. Is there a
meeting on the agenda for today going
into the weekend?
>> Yes. So, I'm going to meet with the the
Swiss delegation. They're coming in to
make a new proposal. And the Trump
administration is always willing to
listen. But you have to remember, you
know, the the Swiss like to say they're
a small country of only 9 million
people. A small rich country. And how
did they become so rich? They sell us
pharmaceuticals like it's going out of
style. All right? They make so much
money off of America. That's why they're
rich. So, let's hear what they have to
say. We'll discuss it with the
president. You know, I'm not optimistic,
but I'm always willing to listen. And
Donald Trump is always
>> Why are you not optimistic?
Traditionally, there's been a decent
relationship there, and the president's
first term relied on the Swiss a lot
when it came to foreign policy and
developments in places like Iran. What's
happened this time?
Well, if you just consider trade, right?
You know, the European Union, right?
They open their market, 450 million
people, 20 trillion dollar economy, and
they say, "We'll take our tariffs down
to zero. You, the American exporters,
can sell us everything." I mean, how
fantastic is that? And they say, "We'll
pay you 15%." And you pay us nothing. I
mean, that is really, really attractive.
Now you go to Switzerland, 9 million
people. I mean, what are they going to
offer the American exporter as compared
to the size and scale by which they
export and earn money off of us? So the
idea is we need balanced and fair trade
and that's a difficult thing. Now you
saw the Japanese they decided to take a
completely different path and what they
said is we will we will give Donald
Trump the power to invest $550 billion
dollar as he at his direction for the
benefit of America. Now that's a
different way of thinking. Now if the
Swiss come out of the box with a whole
new way of thinking I'm open-minded. But
if they just say our rich companies are
going to buy more of America, I mean
that's what Donald Trump is complaining
about. You realize in 1985
we America owned more of the rest of the
world. We owned just about 150 billion
of the rest of the world. And you know,
in 2025, when Donald Trump takes office,
the rest of the world owns 26 trillion
more of us because they just use all the
money they make off of us to buy us. And
sooner or later, they're just going to
own us. And Donald Trump has said enough
of this. We are going to own ourselves
going forward.
>> Mr. Secretary, I know you're your own
boss on your own time, but your team is
telling us we've got to go shortly. So,
I'm going to squeeze out a few more
minutes if I can. At 8:30 Eastern time,
we meant to get a jobs number. This is
what we heard from the BLS just moments
ago that the Bureau of Labor Statistics
says it's experiencing a technical
problem and data retrieval tools are
currently not available on the website.
Sir, are we going to see a number in 10
minutes time?
>> I don't know if we're going to see a
number, but I tell you, it makes it
crystal clear. You should have fired the
person who was running that group,
right? Because if you didn't fire them
two weeks ago, you sure as heck would be
firing them today. So, they need new
leadership in BLS, that's for sure. They
need new tech and BLS. That's for sure.
And Donald Trump needs to rely upon the
numbers. America needs to rely upon the
numbers. You can't have these bent
former administration people who have a
view and who want to harm the president.
We need accurate numbers coming from
BLS. And finally, we'll have new
leadership to deliver it.
>> Mr. Secretary, you're also going to
promise new resources for them to
increase their collection and increase
some of their staff to go out and make
this data accurate.
>> Yeah. Can you imagine? They had people
calling around. I mean, come on.
Computers. Computers. Wow. It's 2025 and
they have computers. New resources, new
technology, wildly better information.
That's what America demands. That's what
Donald Trump's going to give them. And
you just need to change leadership every
once in a while and make sure we get it
right. I'm excited about what's coming.
Of course, you fire the person. What do
you learn? You learn that their
technology is just oh boy. And but we'll
fix it. We'll fix it.
>> Well, I hope you do and I hope you can
fix it in the next 9 minutes, sir,
because you're in charge now. United
States Secretary of Commerce, Howard
Lnik. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
Appreciate it. The numbers about 9
minutes away and we'll see if we
actually get the figures at 8:30 Eastern
time. So, I'm looking right now on the
Bloomberg screen and it says in big red
letters that are flashing BLS is
experiencing technical difficulties.
Data may be delayed. So, uh just you
know duly warned that maybe the market
is uh going to have to kind of I don't
know tread water for a little bit longer
>> with us around the table. Nadia Lovevel
if you've asked Nadia good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> I'm sorry we're not going to have much
time but we might have a long long time
depending on whether we get this number
or not.
>> What are you expecting in a few minutes
time? Look, we want a labor market
that's cooling, that's not freezing, and
I think the market will accept something
between 50 to 100K. If you see something
under that, of course, there will be
concerns about is the Fed behind the
curve and are we entering a growth
scarce uh scenario? If you see something
a lot more than that, I think you go
back to questioning integrity of the
data just given the amount of revisions
that we've had over the last couple of
months. Um, and you know, historically,
we know that August tends to see
downward revisions anyway. So ultimately
we don't think that what we get at 8:30
is going to change the expectation and
our expectations for a 25 basis points
cut um in the next Fed meeting. You
could get a bit bit more if the data is
really weak. I can already hear the
groans but is good news good news and
bad news bad news. The idea of is a good
print something that makes you more
bullish on equities and a bad print
something that makes you more bearish or
really is it all it depends on what the
Fed does in response to this data. Look,
I think the it's baked at this point
that Powell is going to um have at least
25 basis points in September. We can all
agree that the tone from the Fed has
tilted more duffish since the last
meeting. Um ultimately what matters for
the markets, we know it's the earning
growth trajectory and we look at coming
out of second quarter earning season
like wow you know 11% earnings growth
estimates has been moving forward uh for
forward estimates further up you know we
are expecting at least high single digit
growth for next year. So I think that
that when you look beyond what we
whatever we get at 8:30 that's going to
be what's key for the market. Do we
continue to get earnest growth and we
think that's going to be the case? Maybe
the cyclical parts could benefit a bit
more from you know increased rate cut
but we think that the growth story has
to still be there.
>> We have some time to be philosophical
considering that the BLS data is
delayed. So I am curious if you see this
profitability of companies coming
without hiring and we've been talking
about that that companies have been
increasing their profitability but they
haven't been increasing their hiring
plans. At what point does that change or
is this just a sort of sea change in the
way the relationship between profits and
employment? Well, when you think about
it that you know um companies has hired
a lot over the last um few years coming
out of the pandemic and now right now I
think what what what's happening
companies is trying to be more efficient
and that doesn't necessarily mean you
need to increase headcount to do that.
You can also use technology to do that
and some of that is coming through um
particularly from the AI front and that
probably is going to continue. So I
think the job creations not looking for
it to sort of fall off the cliff but
again we're coming off from a very high
level over the last few years. I think
what you're seeing in the labor market
is some normalization as well. We think
that corporate profitability will remain
intact. I mean companies have talked
about many ways to even circumvent and
navigate some of the tariff hedge and we
saw that through the second earnings
quarter earning season and we expect
that to continue in the next couple of
quarters as well.
>> Stick with the market cap S&P 500 or do
you want to go elsewhere? The cyclical
tails work the small caps over the last
month or so. I
>> I think look you stick with secular
growth add some cyclical exposure. We've
been doing that through financials. You
know, if we get uh rate cuts, but the
right rate cuts in terms of the Fed is
cutting with the economy still being
resilient, then I think you can broaden
it out to get even more cyclical
exposure and small cap could be an
interesting way to do that as well.
>> Nadia, good to see you. As always on
this payrolls Friday, Nadia level there
of UBS on an equity market looking for
maybe a bit of a cyclical tilt for the
months ahead.
>> Yeah, and maybe we'll get some
confirmation of that when we get the BLS
numbers, but right now the question is
when will we get the BLS numbers? We
would be 4 minutes and 30 seconds away
from it, but evidently, sorry, we are
currently experiencing technical
problems.
>> We'll see if we do. Scheduled for 8:30
Eastern time. The estimate in our
survey, 75K. The range is pretty wide.
Zero at the low end, 144 at the high
end. There's a rate cut on the table for
September 17th. Will this data reinforce
the move we've seen from the Federal
Reserve? The concern, the shift, the
bias from the chairman of the Federal
Reserve to tee up a rate cut, the jobs
number up next.
[Music]
live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. Now, we're expected to have a
jobs report seconds from now. We'll see
if we actually get one. The scores going
into it look like this. Equity futures
just about positive on the S&P 500, just
about unchanged at the moment. As we
come into Friday at alltime highs on the
NASDAQ 100 higher by 0.5 in the bond
market 2-year, 10year and 30-year yields
look like this. Yields a little bit
lower, down three on 10 to 41279 with a
jobs number. Let's cross over to Mike
McKe. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning. We do have the data and it
is not good. 22,000 jobs created during
the month of August. That is
significantly lower than uh the 75,000
anticipated last month. 73,000 revised
up to 79,000.
Change in private payrolls 38,000. Last
month it was 83,000. The two-month net
payroll revision is another negative
21,000. We'll have to look and see what
the breakdown on that is. But uh the uh
unemployment rate, which is the thing
the Fed is watching, moves to 4.3% from
4.2%. Labor force participation rate
ticks up to 62.3%.
Uh manufacturing payrolls down 12,000.
We did expect that given what we saw
with the ISM numbers. So at this point,
there's nothing surprising except the
weakness in these numbers. Average
hourly earnings up 3/10en as forecast,
but uh only up 3.7% on a year-over-year
basis. So, uh the non-farm payrolls.
Okay, that's I I'm just looking to see
some revisions popped up late here, but
uh there's nothing more beyond what I
told you. 22,000 jobs created, another
21,000 uh another uh 21,000 taken away
from the prior two months of June and
July. I'll get you more details and uh
it doesn't look like the markets are
happy about this.
>> Yeah, Mike, appreciate it. Thanks for
the update. We'll cross back to Michael
McKe in just a moment. So, it's a
downside surprise. 22K, the estimate 75.
The range was pretty wide. 0 to 144 from
the low to the high end. The 3-month
average now, just 29,000 jobs month over
month over month. Not good. And you see
it reflected in the bond market. The
front end of the curve, yields lower by
another six basis points. Two's dropped
to 350. That's a new low for 2025. 10's
down 4 to 411. 30s down 2 to 483. With a
picture like that in the bond market,
push it through foreign exchange. Dollar
weaker, euro stronger. Euro dollar
11735.
That currency pair with a 7% move so far
this morning. And in equity futures,
initially a little bit lower off the
back of this. And then Brammo pops
higher, positive by 0.2%.
>> Yeah. And I'm looking at the Russell
2000 futures. and those also are up a
quarter of a percent in the wake of
this. Honestly, this seems to be bad
enough to make the Fed cut rates and
maybe look at further rate cutting uh
later this year. Well, not so bad that
it would undermine the sort of cyclical
tilt that we're seeing to the market.
So, putting that together, not a very
positive number, a really stagnant labor
market, but not something that's raising
alarm bells that we're heading into a
recession that the Fed can't save off.
>> Mike McKe, I want to come back to you,
sir. Headline number of course downside
surprise 22,000 the estimate 75. There's
a great debate on Wall Street as you
know about whether this downshift in
payrolls growth is a reflection of
what's happening with demand supply
whether this is a cyclical turn or a
structural shift. Mike, which one is it?
And what does this data tell you this
morning?
>> We don't have a good idea, John. And
most analysts at the Federal Reserve are
saying it's a little bit of both. Uh
it's going to take a while to figure out
exactly what's causing this, but
certainly there's a lack of demand. That
would be paramount. There's also maybe a
lack of supply, but we saw in the Jolts
data now that we have more people who
are unemployed than uh there are jobs
openings. So it's now becoming a
question of uh why aren't companies
hiring? And for that, the logical
explanation is the fiscal policies of
the administration. I'm looking at the
revisions and June was revised down by
27,000 additional to a negative 13,000.
So June is now a negative employment
print. July revised up by 6,000 from
73,000 to 79,000. But this does suggest
there's a lot more weakness in the
employment area in the employment side
of the Fed's mandate than anticipated.
And I would think that that negative
June print would certainly put the Fed
on the path to at this point be cutting
by 25 basis points. I I don't know if
it's bad enough for 50. You wonder if
someone on their hand puts up their hand
on the FOMC and asks for that 50. Mike
McKe with the latest. Michael, come back
to you later. 22K then if you're just
joining us. The payrolls report did drop
on time 4 minutes ago. 22,000 downside
surprise. 75 was the estimate. You're
looking at a three-month average now for
payrolls of just 29,000
captured in the bond market with lower
yields in the FX market with a weaker
dollar. In equities, equities still
positive on the session by a quarter of
1% on the S&P 500. The Nasdaq still up
nicely by 0.7. The Russell after a 7%
surge in August, up again this morning.
>> This idea that this could lead to a
reignition of the cycle, and it goes
back to the question that you asked
yesterday. Is this a Fed that will be
cutting into something of a
reaceleration or that will cut and spur
that reaceleration? And right now the
market based on the market activity
seems to think that rate cut could be
very helpful in allowing the renition of
the cycle.
>> We've got a fantastic lineup through the
next 25 minutes or so. We can kick it
off with Stephanie Roth of Wolf
Research. Stephanie, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> You've had five minutes to go over this.
What's your first take?
>> First take is another weak summer
employment report. immigration seems to
be having another impact on the data.
When you look at the household survey,
the foreignb born population was again
uh sort of the weaker part of it.
Looking ahead, we expect that you'll
have one more piece of negative news. So
September 9th once we get the annual
preliminary benchmark revisions that's
going to be revised down to the tune of
something like 600,000. So that's going
to be another really bad negative
headline. Then beyond that, we think
that they the the the signs will look a
little bit better. So we have another
couple weeks of this. It should be a a
dovish September FOMC and then beyond
that we think that the tides could turn
up a little bit and then you'll start to
see the the economy start to pick up
cyclally. You'll have a bit of a trough
and then the the dynamics could look a
bit different.
>> The first thing you went to though was
population growth. Do you think there's
still a big supply side story that's
underappreciated in these numbers?
>> Yes, I do. I think that's a large part
of what's going on. Of course, it's hard
to sort of decipher monthtomonth, but if
you look at the household survey, uh
foreignb born employment was down
342,000 while native born was up
451,000.
Uh the the the labor force participation
rate for foreignb born tick down again.
Uh so it does look like you're seeing
some, you know, continued weakness out
of the immigration. That helps explain
why payroll growth was negative in June.
We had 500,000 people from the CHNV
program whose visas got expired
overnight from May to June. If that's
the case, why aren't we seeing faster
wage growth? Why are we seeing the
underemployment rate going up? Why are
we seeing the average number of hours
worked in a week kind of stay stagnant
or even go down? Right? These are the
signs of weakness that people look at on
the corners and say, "Wait a second,
there is something here that speaks to
the demand side as much as there is this
also supply side story."
>> Yeah. I mean, wages were were fine.
Um.3% which is an okay number. not a
number that you would expect if the
labor market was really falling apart.
So what we're seeing is a combination of
supply and demand. It's certainly not
just a supply side story. Demand is also
softened. But when you look for the
months ahead, that demand should start
to pick up as the tariff uncertainty
starts to fade. So we had a lot of
things largely policy driven that hit
the economy over the summer. That should
go the other way later this year. But
right now it's a combination of a supply
side shock and also some significant uh
hits to the demand side as well.
>> Mike McKe standing by. Mike, you've got
some more.
Yeah. Uh, John, to the issue you're just
talking about now, I'm not sure it holds
a lot of water because uh, the civilian
labor force grew by 436,000
during the month, which is the biggest
since April and April was when the month
uh, that we saw the market the the labor
data start to weaken. Uh, the
participation rate actually ticked up
and uh, at this point it doesn't look
like immigration played a big role. I
have to mention here that uh the BLS
cautions on its website and in its uh
literature not to use the foreignb born
uh nativeborn population statistics to
just tell you what happened this month
because there are statistical reasons
that they don't. Uh it's complicated. I
won't go into it on the air, but I'm not
sure that gives us a whole lot of
information. It's been an a talking
point used by administrations from both
parties, but I'm not sure that that
makes a lot of difference. The biggest
thing that we saw in the numbers here
quickly is that leisure and hospitality
uh and also education and health are the
only two categories that really show any
growth at all. Education and health
about uh 46,000. Leisure, hospitality
28,000.
There are an awful lot of categories
that lost jobs during the month. I will
point out that construction jobs were
down by 7,000. ADP had them up by
16,000. And in that strange comment the
president made last night about the
payroll report which suggested he
already knew uh what the numbers were,
he said it's all construction now, but
it doesn't seem to be construction
either.
>> Mike McKe with the latest. Mike, thank
you. Stephanie, you were following that
explanation. Please want to give you
some time to respond.
>> Yeah, so I mean I think it's fair the
data are certainly volatile monthto
month, but if you look at the foreignb
born uh statistics out of the household
survey, it's been fairly weak for the
past couple of months. So to the extent
that of course it's not a perfect
picture but we do know that there's sign
significant crackdown on from from an
immigration perspective that is likely
having some impact of although it's very
difficult to to to get a clean read out
of the data. You saw the foreignb born
employment fall 342,000 in August 416 in
in July. It's hard to say that there's
no impact from an immigration
perspective. Of course it's difficult to
get the exact precise numbers out of the
household survey because it is
notoriously volatile as Mike just
mentioned but it's hard to say that
there's no impact from immigration.
getting a range of responses already
this morning. This from Neil Data of
Renmack. The Hawks have lost on their
own terms. Employment growth is still
calling and the unemployment rate is
rising.
>> You have right now 100% chance of a rate
cut baked in for uh later this month.
So, it seems like they are agreeing with
his assessment and that on their own
terms this would warrant a rate cut. Key
question to me is what is the depth of
the weakness? And I keep going to yes,
the bond market response, but that's
actually less interesting to me than the
stock market response. The fact that
there is this belief that this is not
great, but it's not so bad that it
curtails the cyclical tilt that we've
seen. And that to me is really the big
question.
>> Let's turn to Jeff Rosenberg on that. He
joins us from Black Rockck. Jeff,
welcome to the program, sir. What do we
always say? The first move isn't always
the right move. And let's see if this
sticks, but the first move is stocks
higher. What's your take?
Yeah, the first move is stocks higher
and this is bad news is good news for
the stock market. Uh because the Fed's
going to ride to the rescue and and cut
rates and the economy is not going to
fall off a cliff. Financial conditions
will help that. It's a little bit
circular, but if the Fed is going to
underwrite the risk rally, then
financial conditions will hold up
confidence even if you're having a
little bit of a slowdown here on the
demand side. So look, that's the initial
read. you know, Russ Russell 2000,
NASDAQ outperformance is really quite
notable. People piling into what has
already been working uh because the Fed
is is is going to be behind that. And I
think that, you know, on top of what
Stephanie and you all were just talking
about, yeah, it's a weaker report, but
it's a weaker report that solidifies 25,
but it's really about, and I think this
is where Lisa was about to go, you know,
what's the path from here? Does this put
October on the table? Does this put 50
on the table? But what it really puts on
the table is a Fed that gets back in
motion for cutting rates. And if the
economy is not falling off a cliff,
that's a pretty good combination for
risk assets. And that's why you're
seeing, at least in this initial
reaction, uh, bad news is good news.
>> You said something really important
there, Jeff, that this is an indication
that the Fed is going to underwrite risk
assets at a time when there is enough
weakness in labor markets to justify
that. What gives you confidence that the
weakness that we're seeing is fixable or
addressable by a couple of rate cuts
this year by the Federal Reserve?
>> Well, I wouldn't overstate that and and
say that it is. But the confidence piece
of that is really the primacy of
financial conditions and and so, you
know, while we're worried about a lot of
things, one of the things we're not
worried about is financial conditions
and they are exceptionally easy. And
this is what I've said on the program
many times. You know, we focus on the
economy and it's this kind of debate.
Does the stock market worry about the
economy or does the economy worry about
the stock market? And I think it's more
the latter that it's about financial
conditions. And the stock market is less
about the economy and much more about AI
and technology. And that boost to wealth
is supporting consumption. And that's
what drives the economy much more than
anything else. And so I think that's
what kind of eases the the concern here
around the slowing in the in the jobs
market that we're seeing out of today's
data. If we've seen the Hawks throw in
their hawkish tilt and become more
dovish on the Federal Reserve and start
cutting rates, does data like this,
Jeff, make you think that maybe you have
to price in steeper cuts over the
remainder of next year, especially with
the changing of the guard that maybe
this market is underappreciating the
risk of more uh significant uh easing?
>> Yeah, it's a really good question. And I
think it's one that will turn our
attention increasingly towards which is
okay to what end? Uh Waller, you know,
uh gave a little hint in that in his
interview earlier this week, 100 to 150
basis points. That seems to be what most
consensus views around Taylor rule
implies. Uh you know, so that amount is
is kind of priced in. I think the
uncertainty that you're alluding to is,
you know, will that be enough? uh and
you know do you end up pricing in you
know more than that uh you know right
now the kind of standard economic
analysis those Taylor rules uh are
arguing for a path of of cuts but it's a
shallow path because policy is only
moderately moderately restrictive and
yes the the delta and the change here is
to the downside the deceleration on the
demand side but as Powell's highlight
highlight highlighted excuse me uh You
know, this is also still a labor market
that is um you know, not tremendously
out of balance. These are small
increases. Yes, there are increases in
the unemployment rate, but the supply
side and the demand side are both uh
easing at the same time. Uh and you see
it in in in the strength in in the
wages, the persistent uh you know, one
thing that didn't happen here is a big
slowdown in the work week, something
we'll keep an eye on. Um and and and and
and so that'll hold up. How deep does
this path have to get?
>> It's quite a move at the front end of
the curve. Jeeoff, just to keep you up
to speed on things if you haven't got
the Bloomberg in front of you, we're
down nine basis points at the front end
of the curve now trading at 340 349. So
into the 340s now, which is something we
haven't seen all year. 10 are at about
4.09%. So we've broken down through 4.1.
30s are way off away from 5% at the
moment at about 481. We're down four
basis points on the session. So Jeeoff,
let's talk about the shape of the curve.
There is a fear held by some, not all,
but some that we'd see a repeat of last
year, that we'd see some weak jobs data,
the Fed would come out of the gates
aggressively, and what you'd see is the
front end come down, but the long end
would actually sell off, yields would
rise, and maybe we'd get the same kind
of move that we saw last year. Jeeoff,
do you see things lining up for a repeat
of 24, or is this different this time?
Well, it's certainly different this time
and you know the day's focus is on the
labor markets and it's a premier data
point for the growth side of the
equation. But next week other data will
come out and we'll focus again on the
other side which is the inflationary
side. And so this is really the tension
that you see within the curve that if
the Fed is cutting and they're telling
us and Powell was pretty clear coming
out of Jackson Hole, there's a primacy
of within the dual mandate the the the
growth side, the maximum employment side
of that mandate. But it's happening at a
time and this is where the hawks have,
you know, kind of been, you know,
squawking a little bit that hey, you
know, the inflation piece hasn't really
been solved and the uncertainty of the
pass through of tariff inflation is
still in front of us plus all the other
things that go into the back end of the
curve, the demand supply, the fiscal,
the deficits. uh it raises the potential
here and you're seeing it in the curve
this morning that you just lag the
declines from what the Fed is doing in
policy rates to the back end of the
curve and that view is you know pretty
consensus in terms of the expectations
of steepening and we've had a lot of
that put into the curve already. So, you
know, that may get a little bit tired
and you've got some technical
positioning. Everybody's on the same
side of the boat. So, that can have an
unwind, but the fundamentals behind a
steepening curve outlook. cutting
interest rates in the face of still
sticky inflation on top of all the
fiscal concerns. You know, do argue that
the pass through from policy in the
short end to the back end uh won't be as
strong as we would historically expect
absent, you know, the big shock of an
economy that really decelerates and
brings back a spectre of not inflation
but deflation. That's how you get the
back end to really outperform.
>> Jeeoff, appreciate it. Good framing as
always. Jeff Rosenberg there of Black
Rockck. If you're just tuning in, you
missed it. It dropped about 20 minutes
ago and it dropped. We're down to 22K.
Big downside surprise on payrolls. The
estimate was 75. I keep going back to
the 3-month average. The three-month
average, it's pretty dreadful. It's
29,000 now. That's a real step down in
payrolls growth. And Bremo, that's why
you're seeing this market start to price
in more rate cuts. We're down nine basis
points at the front end.
>> We're seeing the slowest pace of uh of
of job growth going back to the
immediate aftermath of the uh pandemic.
and what happened there. Question here
is why this is considered a positive for
risk assets given that it is a
deceleration and this belief as uh we
were just hearing from Jeff that the Fed
is willing to underwrite risk assets.
>> Mike Collins of Py fixed income joins us
now for more. Mike, welcome to the
program, sir. It's another downside
surprise. You were looking for a weaker
economy. It looks like we've got one.
How does this change the conversation on
September 17th for the Federal Reserve?
Yeah, Jonathan, I'm I'm just glad the
number came out right right before 8:30.
We were looking at we were looking at
the bond market rallying in the front
end and and the bond market was turning
from vigilante mode to conspiracy theor
theorist mode, right? So, so uh you
know, let's let's be thankful we got the
number. Uh but this is a continued
deceleration, right? And I think what's
happening right now is the markets are
quickly moving from pricing in two cuts
uh for the rest of this year, meaning
one in 12 days and one uh in December to
to possibly a cut at all three meetings.
Right? That's what's the the transition
that's happening right now in the
markets. And I love the conversation
around the wealth effect uh financial
conditions. Is good news bad news or is
good news is bad news good news or is it
is it bad news? And you know, the
markets are kind of maybe, you know, the
stock market's whistling past the
graveyard a little bit here, thinking,
"Oh, it's all good. The Fed will backs
stop this. Financial conditions are
easy. The wealth effect is real and
powerful and persistent." But, you know,
the way companies manage through a
cycle, Jonathan and Lisa, right? They
they first they reduce wage gains, and
we've seen that. Check that box. Then
they start cutting the hours. Check that
box. Then they reduce new hiring. Check
that box. And the last thing they do is
start firing people, right? And we're
just kind of maybe on the precipice of
that last box being checked. And
companies do that to to preserve margin,
right? And I think you're seeing
increasing evidence that companies have
don't have the ability to pass through
these these higher prices from from
tariffs. And they're starting to eat it
in margin. So they they have to, you
know, use the the labor line as the as
the delta to to maintain uh their bottom
line earnings. and and that's you know
not great uh for the economy. So, so I
do worry, you know, whenever you have a
recession, you always look back because
we always miss it, right? Everybody's
always surprised when you have a
recession and you always look back and
say, "Wow, how come I didn't pay more
heed to these, you know, yellow flags
and and I think these are more yellow
flags that are popping up." And, you
know, so I'm just, you know, urging some
some caution, uh, that maybe the the
stock market, you know, valuations,
which are really, you know, heady
already, um, you know, maybe are are
topping out here. Mike, the idea of
whistling past a graveyard, it isn't
just applicable to stocks. It's also
applicable to your world in credit. Uh,
and what we've seen particularly in high
yield bonds and how spreads have really
compressed and we have seen this rush
into riskier assets. This idea that Jeff
Rosenberg was talking about, is this a
Fed willing to underwrite risk assets or
do you say this is a warning shot to
lighten up on high yield, lighten up on
credit risk and go into duration?
Yeah, I mean we've been doing that trade
right um arguably we've been early
because you know over the last two years
you should have owned as much risk
assets as much high yield as as you
could have. uh defaults continue to be
generally uh really low. But you are
seeing continued uh concerns and and
pressure and credit deterioration among
the weakest tranches of the high yield
and the leverage loan and the private
credit markets uh where these high
rates, these high borrowing costs,
especially for companies that that have
floating interest rates are really
starting to um hurt them, have a big
negative impact. So, so I think there's
kind of this sneaking, you know, credit
u deterioration happening out there
that's not hitting the headlines yet.
So, so yeah, I think it's still a world
where you're supposed to be a little
long duration. Uh have a curve steepener
on two positions fortunately we've been
in and and stay very defensive on the
credit side. I mean, talking about high
yield spreads, Lisa, you see the
headlines of, you know, high yield
spreads are just inside 300, but but
even there it is somewhat bifurcated.
everything has has done well, but you
we're selling, you know, double B- rated
high yield bonds with with double digit
spreads, Lisa, like inside 100, right?
And and so that is a clearly a recipe
for moving up in quality where you can
buy high quality, you know, investment
grade bonds and structured product and
even mortgage back securities in some
cases at at similar, you know, spreads
are not giving up a lot of spread. So
those are easy trades that you still
have to be disciplined and do.
>> Mike, it sounds like you trust this
data. It sounds like you're not worried
about politicization of the Federal
Reserve. Just quickly, is that true that
that's all noise to you and you look at
the data and this just indicates
negativity?
>> Well, you look at the the big picture
trend and that's what you have to do
when you look at these data, Lisa. And
you know, we went from 400,000 job
growth a few years ago to 200 to 100 to
50. Our job rate of job growth has been
cut in half now for four straight years.
And that's been the the trend we've been
expecting and and looking to. Now you
have this big change in in you know
immigration deportation policy which
kind of is a step function lower in
terms of the labor supply. So now maybe
you know 0 to 100 is is not even the the
right level of of of natural rate of
growth of the labor force. Maybe it's
zero right it's the low end of that
range and we're kind of punching toward
that. So, this is a big supply problem,
but I'm worried that the markets are
kind of discounting the demand side,
too, that the demand side of of of labor
is weakening. And yeah, granted, if the
Fed cuts three times this year, three
times next year, gets the funds rate
into the high twos, which is
increasingly what's being priced in
right now, you know, the economy can
certainly survive through that,
companies will survive through that, we
won't have a recession, and that's a
really good good outcome for, you know,
for all of us.
>> Mike, appreciate it. Have a good
weekend. It's good to see you as always.
Mike Collins there of Pym Fixed Income.
Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research still
with us. Stephanie, you've talked about
that reaceleration in the economy. Is
the Fed about to pour some gasoline all
over that fire on September 17th?
>> Yeah, I think they might, but that's
okay because the economy has slowed
down. So, the extent to which we have a
little bit of easing in financial
conditions isn't the worst thing. We
have this shock from both the supply and
demand perspective, but the demand side
is important. and the extent to which it
could help sectors of the economy like
housing which has been hurt by the by
higher interest rates. It's okay for
them to cut a couple more times, then
we're going to see that reaceleration
and it might be harder for the Fed to
cut beyond that.
>> I hope you're right. This is what we got
from Steve Chevron of Federated just
moments ago. Bremo. This isn't about a
September cut. It's now about the Fed's
path towards neutral. Right now, we're
looking at now three rate cuts being
priced into the market by the end of the
year, including more than a full 25
basis point uh cut at the September 17th
meeting. This is about neutral. This is
about where we are in the economic
cycle. And this will be about what the
Fed will do even before we get a change
in leadership. So maybe President Trump
will get what he wants even without any
kind of changing of the guard.
>> Mike Con is just happy we got a number.
That's how low the bar is right now.
>> Well, I don't blame him, honestly. We
were getting warning signs, big red
flashing letters. We have a data problem
and then you know
>> we've got some data. It's good news.
Stephanie, it's good to see you. Thanks
for being here. Thank you very much. If
you're just joining us, you missed it.
22K on payrolls. Big downside surprise.
75,000 the estimate. 3-month average now
29,000. In the bond market, this is what
it means to fixed income. Yields down at
the front end by 10 basis points. Twos
at 348. In the equity market, equities
like it. Equities up by a third of 1% on
the S&P. all-time highs heading into the
weekend.
[Music]